
  3 year of policy debate at Chandler High School 
Frosh policy debater University of Pittsburgh 
30 second overview
I'm a 2A/1N. Most of my debate career has been going for race arguments or Nietzsche. I'm also vaguely familiar with some po-mo, high theory args as well. that being said a good cp/da debate or clash debate is always refreshing. read whatever you are comfortable with and i will evaluate it. 
Post Blake Updates-My RFDs will be blunt and savage If you don't like it, tough. 
Don't read psychoanalysis unless you know what you're talking about 
Dont extend 13 links in your 2NR
Speaker Points
Everyone starts at a 28.5 and goes up or down from there. A large portion of speaker points is dependent on a combination of ethos, pathos, and argument making. If you include the forgotten art of line by line, good analytics, and know what you're talking about You will be rewarded will speaker points and probably a ballot. They're also put into perspective by your speaker position. A useless 1N probably won't get above a 29.
Opinion on the topic
LD-I'm don't have one
Policy- I love the Chinese
K Affs (traditional and otherwise)
I have read a k aff every year that I have debated. When done right I love these debates. Have a tangential relationship to the topic. If you can change little to nothing of the aff I will be very sympathetic to framework. Using case to answer arguments and always referring to the aff and the 1AC will put you in a great position. Please defend something in the 1AC. take a stance. Being wishy washy in cx and being noncommittal will hurt your speaks and make me sympathetic to the other team. This doesn’t mean you need a plan text, just an idea that the neg can contest. 
Framework
Prove that the aff isn’t the core of the topic, can be read on another topic, or isn't an aff position and you will probably win the debate. An aff that isn't near the topic shouldn't be read but you have to prove that to me to vote on it. Fairness isn't an impact. It is, however, an internal link to education. Reading framework does not give you a pass to answering case and not linking to a disad isn’t offense. The aff should critique their method of debate and have DAs to their style of debate and these should be impacted out. 
Topicality
These debates usually don’t amount to anything but can be effective time eschews. That being said, I am very sympathetic to T when read against really small, obscure, unpredictable affs. Explain what allowing their aff does and why it shouldn't be read and you'll be in good shape. 
Case
Reading generics on case probably isn’t useful or productive and won't get you anywhere. Making analytics on case, taking quotes from 1AC cards and making them into arguments is enjoyable and will be rewarded if used effectively. 
Basically, know what you're talking about and make arguments and you'll be ahead of the game.
disads are ok
jokes about the Pitt debate team or its coaching staff will be rewarded with .1 speaks (.5 max)
  