
  Charles "The Terminator" Adams

I am currently a Senior debater at Meadows and have debated for the last 3.5 years.

1. Flowing is essential—it will help your organization a lot which will help your speaker points and help me get all of your arguments
2. Impact Calculus—In order to weigh your disad against a case, or in order to win your case on the aff, you have to directly weigh your impacts against your opponents.
3. Kritiks—I am willing to vote for them, but I have never liked the K. If going for the K is your best chance to win in the 2NR then go for it.
4. Kritikal Advantages—I do not prefer to judge them. I will, however, give it weight if your advantages are coherent and you can sell the link to the impacts. An example of a terrible advantage is racism on the light pollution aff. Being afraid of the dark does NOT mean you hate black people.
5. Theory—I do not want to listen to each side reading a generic theory shell over and over again. If you are going to go for theory, you have to spend time on it in the block and develop your arguments. RVIs are unacceptable.
6. Topicality—I enjoy a good T debate. The neg has to have good warrants for all of their standards. If you say they over/underlimit the topic, you need examples of “big affs” that they limit or tiny affs that they allow. You have to explain why your interp is superior. If the aff drops T, GO FOR IT. RVIs are unacceptable.
7. Case—Aff, DO NOT DROP YOUR CASE!!!!! You cannot forget about your case in the 2AC. You are done if you do that.
8. Paperless—I don’t take prep time for flashing speeches. Just don’t steal prep time. I’m very forgiving with computer issues.
9. Clarity is better than speed. If you are not very fast, and you try to force it, you will be slower and I won’t understand you.
10. Counterplans—I like a good CP debate. Make sure you have a clear net benefit and have a good reason why the CP alone is best.
11. Disads—see Impact Calc. Remember that you have to win your link to gain access to your disad. AFF: Don’t drop them.
  