
  I debated in Policy for 3 years at Hunter High School. In that time, I did a fair amount of debating on the national circuit. Currently, I am an assistant coach at Hunter.

Overall, I am pretty much ok with whatever you want to run. Do what you do best and convince me. I am ok with speed but I would appreciate it if you would go just a bit slower on your tags so that I can make sure they get on the flow. I am not particularly biased on whether or not I will vote on the Case or the K. I really just need both sides to explain what my ballot actually does. If I do not get any articulation on what the K alt is and how my advocacy solves for the impacts of the K, I will have a harder to time voting on that flow. I think impacts need to be explained in relation to the opposing arguments just so that I get a clearer story as to why I give you my ballot over your opponent. I will vote on theory but I need some type of impact scenario on theory, potential abuse will not get you very far unless the theory goes completely conceded.

Case: I think the case is largely underutilized in debate. I think that the 2AC can usually get pretty far with case extensions onto the other flows. I am ok with K Affs but I really will need some explanation of what the ballot does. I think that this year's topic (oceans) is a very interesting topic. I really love affirmatives that are different. I will still vote on things like aquaculture or otech but I will be much happier if I get to vote on a diverse number of affs.

Counterplans: If you want to read contradicting texts amongst your counterplans I think that’s fine. I have no problem with you running multiple well explained counterplans. Well explained is key because, as always, I need to understand the likelihood of your impact if I’m going to evaluate your impact calc at the end of the 2NR. I think that PICs are fine but be sure not to concede the theory debate that will almost always follow.

Disads: All I really have to say is that I love specific links. Specific disads with super clear, awesome link stories will get you pretty far in front of me. I have studied a large amount of political science, this means that I tend to really dislike a lot of politics disadvantages because I think that they tend to skew the way things actually are. I do not think that Obama losing political capital will cause a nuclear war, things like that. However, I will still vote on them if I get a clear story and contextualized impact scenario.

Criticisms: I am extremely comfortable voting for the K. I love a lot of deep ecology based literature but I think that in debate a lot of that literature is skewed just a bit but that won't stop me from voting for your Anthro K. I think that regardless of the Kritik, I need a lot of work on the alternative. I need to know how the alternative solves for the impacts of the K. If you can explain your alt well with warranted evidence, I see no problem pulling the trigger on the K. I think that language kritiks are particularly compelling because I think that the way we talk about things definitely shapes the way that we as a community feel towards those things. I really dislike kritiks that are exclusionary. If your kritik is harmful to one group of people or another, I will be really upset. I think that this community needs to be a safe space for everyone and I would really hate it if your round indicated otherwise. 

Theory: Like I have already said, I need real world impact scenarios on theory or else I will struggle to vote here. I think it is a strategic option but make sure that you are smart about how you run it. 

Prep: I do not count flashing as prep but do not abuse it. I am extremely close to shifting my opinion on flashing your speech but for now it stays the same. If I feel that you are abusing the clock I will let you know. I am just fine with tag team but cross x is factored into speaker points. If your partner does all the work in cross I will probably dock both of you.

If you have any specific questions feel free to email me or ask in round: jt.adams96@gmail.com
  