
  I debated for 3 years in high school at Beaver Dam High School in Wisconsin. In college, I debated for 3 years at the University of Wisconsin Oshkosh. For the last two summers I have taught debate at the Marquette University Debate Institute and I am currently a coach through the MN UDL at Lucy Craft Laney Middle School in north Minneapolis. I have been judging for about 4 years now. I have primarily a policy background, I never debated LD, but have judged countless rounds. I've only judged a handful of tournaments on this year's topic because law school takes up all my time.

As for my approach to debate, I will hear pretty much any argument as long as you give me some good warrants and impact it out. I will only listen to something and weigh it in the round it you tell me to and if you impact it out. It's your job as a debater to persuade me and tell me where to vote, where you're winning, etc. With that in mind, I am very flow oriented. I will always default back to my flow, and after doing this for so many years, I trust my flowing skills. As for my approach to specific types of arguments... I'm fine with topicality, but only raise a violation if it's necessary to win and it's reasonable. Kritiks, I love them IF they are done properly. Ks are something that you should run only if you know what you're doing and understand the arg, but I really do love a good K debate. Therefore, theory arguments are fair game too. As for CPs, I'm fine with them as well. I don't mind speed, it's inherent in debate, I did it, so I can flow it. As for speaks and performance, the more persuasive you are and the more you actually argue, not just read cards but also make a clear argument, the higher your points and the happier I will be.

There's only one thing I really can't stand to hear: Abuse. Don't cry and moan that the other team is abusive, usually when you're doing that you have nothing better to say, the better alternative is to try to make a valid argument. Granted, sometimes claiming abuse is warranted, but in my eyes, it's far and few between. Typically it makes you a better debater and I'll give you higher speaks if you argue instead of whine. Otherwise, I am pretty much open to anything as long as it's warranted & impacted. Debate is a game, do what you have to in order to win, as long as it's within the rules and not overly unfair to the other team. Have fun, enjoy yourself, and learn from your mistakes, that's what debate is about.
  