
  If we're talking about paradigm I view debate as a game. It's an educational game but a game still. I think most rules are debatable. I think speech times are consistent and not a breakable rule, ad-hominem attacks are not acceptable. 
Even if your're not friends with your debate partner treat them respect and please no bickering with them. 
I'd prefer if people do an e-mail stream instead of flashing or other methods of sharing evidence.
I'll shake your hand if it's like your last round of high school debate and I so happen to judge it. It's weird to me when a kid tries to shake my hand after a round though. I did it when I was debating and didn't realize how odd it was. Oops. 

This years topic specific stuff.
1. DON't Run the STATES counterplan in front of me if it isn't real world feasible the 50 states and relevant territories would actually do the policy in question. 
2. I realize as students some of you decide to do other stuff besides debate in your leisure however try to be on top of current events related to the education space like teacher strike in West Virginia or the one that may or may not happen in Oklahoma.
3. DEBATE IS A GAME AND YOU SHOULD Play to WIn. Remember that even though it's competitive and fun you can't debate forever so make friends with your teammates and folks you compete against. 
4. THERE ARE FORMER DEbaters doing practically EVERYTHING. Some become attorneys or DJs or comedians or Professors or designers. Policymakers etc. What I'm saying is in Framework debates there are things that can be contributed to society beyond a mere consumption mentality 

SPeaker points 
I evaluate how well you answered your opponents arguments, ETHOs, persuasiveness, Humor, STRATEGIC DECISIONS. There are times when one team is clearly more dominant or one student is a superior speaker. That's GREAT!! I'm not going to reward you with speaker points for walloping a weaker team. You're not going to be penalized either but it's clear when you have a challenge and when you just get an easy draw in round.




IF I HAVE NEVER MET YOU BEFORE DON'T EMAIL ME ASKING FOR EVIDENCE FROM ROUNDS I JUDGED

ARGUMENTs I'd rather not hear.
SPARK 
WIPEOUT 

Arguments I find offensive and refuse to flow
RACISM GOOD
PATRIARCHY GOOD



KRITIKS 


I'll listen to your criticsim. Few things. I think there needs to be a coherent link story with the affirmative, words or scholarship the affirtmative said in cross-x. Your K will not be a viable strategy in front of me without a link story. It's a very tough hill to win a K in front of me without an Alternative. Debaters have done it before but it's been less than 5 times. 


Explain and analyze what the alternative does. Who does it
How does a world compare post alternative to pre-alternative?


NEgative FrameworkShould interpt various words in the resolution Have clear brightline about why your view of debate is best for education
Address proper forums for critical arguments people make

Have voting issues that explain why your vision of debate is desirable.I prioritize role of the ballot issues.

PERFORMANCE/POEMS/ Interpretive I'll entertain it I guess, I'm probaly not the most recceptive though. Explain how you want me to fairly evaluate these concerns. Also consider what type of ground you're leaving your opponent without making them go for reprehensible args like: Patriarchy Good or racism good.

Counterplans Need to have a solvecny advocate A text Literature
Can be topical in my mind Net benefit or D/A to prefer CP to aff Needs to be some breathing room between Counterplan and plan. PICS are fine however I don't think it's legit to jack someone elses aff and making a minute difference there isn't lit for. 

Legitimate Competition 


A reason the permutation can't work besides theory arguments. 


Theory


DON'T JUST READ THEORY BLOCKS AGAINST Each other. Respond in a line by line fashion to opponents theory args. Dropped arguments are conceded arguments obviously. In a close debate don't assume because you have a blippy quick theory argument it's neccessarily going to win you a debate in front of me if you didn't invest much time in it. 


Rebuttals

1. Engage with opponents evidence and arguments. 

2. Make contextual differences. 

3. Humor is fine but don't try to be funny if you're not. 

4. Clarity is preferred over speed. Not telling you to go slow but if I can't coherently understand what you're saying we have a problem. Like if you're unclear or slurr a bunch of words while you're spreading. 

5. HAVE FUN! Getting trophies and winning tournaments is cool but I'm more concerned what kind of person you're in the process of becoming. Winning isn't everything. 


Topicality
Don't trivalize T. Burden is on the affirmative to prove they are topical. I'll listen to reasonablity or competing Interpretations framework. I don't believe in one more than other and can be persuaded either way. Standards by which to evaluate and voting issues are nice things to have in addition to an Interpretation. 
Arguments I like on T that I find have been lost to the wayside. 


Reasons to prefer source of dictionary, information about changing language norms and meaning, the usage of the word in soceity currently. 


Grammar analysis pertaining to the resolution.
Framers Intent/ Resolution planning arguments 


Voting issues you think someone who thinks debate is an educational game would like to hear. 
Disadvantages
Link Story that is specific to AFFIRMATIVE. 
Impacts that would make a worse world than aff. 
Author qualifications matter to me, Sources of your evidence matter to me. How well you're able to explain your claims matter to me. Evidentiary comparison to your opponents authors are saying. 


General stylistics things 
Some kind of labelling for arguments like numbers or letters before the tags is preferrable. If you have questions feel free to e-mail me. silvermdc1@gmail.com
  