
  Updated: April, 2009

Background

I debated for four years at Jack C. Hays High School in Austin TX and graduated in 2006. I debated on the local and national circuit. I am the former assistant at Salado High School, and the current assistant at Winston Churchill High School.

Standard

I vote off of the standard proper unless told otherwise. Off-case, procedural, and theory arguments are acceptable but each one of them needs to have a “standard” built in that tells me how to vote. Each impact should link to this standard; if one is not articulated then I cannot factor it in my decision.

Truth Testing vs. Comparative Worlds

I default negate if there is no affirmative offense and I presume affirmative if there is offense from both debaters but no weighing from the negative. This is a prime example of what has come to be known as the "truth tester" paradigm. This does not mean that I will reject a comparative worlds framework or that you should change your framework to coincide with tt. I will evaluate the framework provided as well as any debate over competing frameworks. However, if there is 1) No alternative framework provided or 2) No argument as to why this should not be my default paradigm, it is the one I will use.

Speaker Points

I believe speaker points should be used to gauge the quality of one's speaking ability as opposed to the quality of one's arguments/strategy. This means clarity and fluidity are everything. A 20 is a speech plagued with stumbles, repetitions, and unfinished thoughts. A 30 is a perfectly executed speech with little to no break in clarity. I have given more 22s than 30s.

Speed

Speed is not a problem so long as you are clear. If you are unclear to the point that it affects my flowing, I will yell "clear" but I will only do this once.

Cards and Citations

I take academic honesty very seriously. You should have full citations either in case or available if they’re asked of you. Moreover, you should at least have the full paragraph/s from which you are cutting available if asked of you. I am very compelled to discredit a piece of evidence if you cannot produce the citation as well as the full paragraph from which it was taken. However, I will never impose a penalty for lacking one of the above if your opponent does not make the argument.

Prep Time

The majority of debaters believe prep time is only the time used to sit down and write arguments. THIS IS NOT TRUE. Don't say "stop prep" and then: look over your index, grab various papers from your expando, pull up your blocks/cases on your laptop...in general, don't cheat. I certainly don't mean you have to instantly begin your speech at the point prep time ends. However, I think it's more than reasonable to expect you to begin your speech in a timely manner. For example, stop prep, drink of water if you want, move to/set up your speaking spot, road-map, speak. Maybe 10-15 seconds?

Speech Time

I've been a part of a few rounds this year where speaking past the timer going off became an issue. My policy is this: finishing your sentence after the timer is acceptable. This is different from finishing your last breath or your last thought. An argument should never begin after the timer.

Misc.

I enjoy it when debaters debate with personality and maybe even some humor. I have yet to be in a round where I docked speaker points for “being rude” or “having an attitude.” That being said, this does not mean that you could not be the first to have this happen. Don’t be rude for the sake of being rude. Debate comfortably, chances are however that is will be fine with me.
  