
  Hey there, my name is Daniel. I debated for 4 years from Monticello High School, all on the national circuit. I received a bid my senior year and went to the TOC on an at-large.

Short Version:
Do what you do best. I sincerely believe that when debaters try and adapt to a judge with a style of debate they are not used to, they often lose rounds. No matter what kind of debater you are, just do what you do best and it will be fine. SLOW DOWN ON ANY TAGLINES, INTERPRETATIONS, IMPORTANT ANALYTICS, OR PLAN TEXTS. This is my biggest thing because i could never for the life of me flow plan texts or interps because people spread them. Plz do that and you should be fine.

Longer Version:
Debate is what you make of it, really. I've always viewed it as a really competitive, fun activity. As long as you're enjoying yourself you're doing the right thing. Here are some specific preferences of mine

Case preferences:
Like i said, do what you do best. But as a debater, especially my senior year, i was all about reading Ks, so this is my "order" of things im best at judging
K/Performance>LARP>T>Theory (yes, that includes tricks)>Heavy phil framework

Ks:
This is what I debated for most of my junior year and all of my senior year. This is my bread and butter and would most definitely be the best at judging at. Here are some things I think are very important when executing the K:
Have strong links - you will always get called out for having shitty links. And if you do have shitty links, you better have answers prepared.Impact framing is important, but you shouldn't spend all of your time going for impacts in your rebuttals.Your role of the ballot is the most important part of the K if you decide to go that route. It is your framework for all offense and should not be super generic so that everything can link to it. A super nuanced role of the ballot is always cool.Alt defense is always key - lets face it, no alt is every extremely solid. Don't concede those perms even though they were probably super blippy and not responsive.Try and make attacks on case - this really gives you leverage later on in the debateExtemping arguments after you've read your cards is super strategic as people are usually looking at the case you flashed them and will concede them later on in speeches.Trigger warnings are important if you are discussing sensitive issues.Specify the impacts your cards are going to have in later speeches. If you don't, your opponent will probably have access to new answers in their next speech. This is super important.Don't be a dick
LARP:
I never really went for the LARP during my career. However, a good util debate is always baller. Here is what i need in order to properly evaluate this kind of debate:
Impact weighing and analysis is the most important part of a LARP debate. If you don't do either of these you are most likely going to lose with sad face speaker points.If your opponents impact scenario is ridiculous, fucking say it. Too many times have i seen debates come down to the most absurd scenarios and it really makes me sadDon't be sketch when you get asked about the status of your CP - dont be a dickWeighWeighPlease weigh
T/Theory
I experimented with theory every now and then but never fully committed to it. Use T whenever possible if you can cause you can't hate on a good T debate. Here's what you should do in these debates:
  