
  I am currently a fourth year at Johns Creek. I also help run BF tab and serve as a lab leader through Emory University for their outreach program, for the past 4 years. If you have any questions, you can email me at sophiaahnemail@gmail.com.

Prep Time
Flashing will not count as prep. Both teams should keep track of prep. In general, try not to leave the room unless necessary--convenient "bathroom breaks" (i.e. right before 1AR) will count as prep.

Speaks
The more you think on your feet, the better your speaks (aka: analytics that arise during the debate>>>>pre-made blocs that a senior on your team made). I have high appreciation for efficiency and anything that makes your argument unique and seemingly logical. The only exception to speaks is if you are rude, excessive, and foul-mouthed (cursing, misuse of pronouns, other derogatory terms); even if you make a strong argument, your presence and behavior will likely hurt your speaks.

Framework
I'm a tabula rasa judge, unless told to vote with another paradigm (stock issues, hypo testing, util, etc.). Though many are supported by cards, I prefer an analytical explanation that is logical and helps me determine how to weigh the debate. This argument is often overlooked in the debate but is one of the easiest ways for a team to "write my ballot."

Topicality
I love a good T debate--when not used as a time skew. I especially like arguments about a seemingly topical aff, prima facia, etc.

K
I won't vote for what is bombast, so 1) be extra clear in your articulation and 2) create a fair environment that allows for the clash/educational value of debate. I'm fine with your team kicking the alt and making it a linear DA, but watch out for what you concede. Any K is fine with me but I especially like Biopower, Security, and Heidegger...I'm not a fan of K affs.

Cross-x
I don't flow cross-x or directly use it to determine my rfd. Its purpose is to point something out that you believe is important for the judge to know before moving forward in the debate, so it should be referenced in its following speeches to take effect. There seems to be a negative stigma surrounding evidence-related, clarification questions; however, there is is absolutely no shame or embarrassment if these are asked--it is more important to understand the evidence in preparation for the next speech rather than having a "good cross-x," moving forward.

*Most importantly, please be polite and give the other team a chance to speak--doing so won't cost you the round or cost you speaks, but being rude will.*

Other
Do NOT pack up during 2AR. Besides that, run what you like most and are best at--do not change anything just for me.

Good luck! :)
  