
  Babajide, Jide (for short) Ajisafe
High School Policy, 4 Years @ NYUDL
College Policy, 5 Years @ UMKC, Nationally competitive or whatever 

I understand that all debaters have their own preferred style and method of argumentation. I also understand that you will do what you know and what you have evidence and coaching for. That being said, I want to see what YOU are best at. Not what you think I will like. Just be persuasive and if possible, passionate.

Overall, I like conceptual/theoretical/themed arguments that tell an intuitive story about a hypothetical world we can create, or refuse to believe in. I do not make my decision at the end of the round—I am always make(ing) my decision and read as much as I can before, after, and during the debate—that being evidence, rhetoric, language, bodies, objects, silence, etc. 

Intervention/Predisposition/Jide type stuff: 
1) Tech does not always = truth. Dropped arguments still have to be persuasive arguments with a claim and a warrant. A dropped argument that had 20-30 seconds invested on it will probably never win me over, sorry. This might be my way of saying that arguments need to pass the "does this make sense test."
2) Evidence quality/execution is really important to me. I mark cards on my flow and will negotiate how much of the "Whole" card/article/book/transcript I will give you. The better the explanation you provide throughout the debate, the more generous my reading of the evidence (applied to different parts of the debate) becomes. I HATE bad cards & LOVE great/well written pieces of evidence, especially at the HS level. You are better off making the argument without the card if the evidence is terrible. To this end, evidence citation (often overlooked by debaters) is extremely important to me.
3) Non traditional evidence: Needs to have a methodological purpose. Do not read from a blog, play music, dance, read your mother's diary, or whatever in front of me if there is no scholastic/theoretical/rhetorical purpose behind you doing so. just don't. 
4) The NEG block: is one (constructive) speech to me. To this end, I am usually kind to the 2AR.
5) Education/my own ignorance: I think that Debaters often know more than judges. Is that the fault of the student/debater? No. That said, new concepts will take me longer to decide because I am probably still processing what went down/filling in gaps in my own knowledge base. In debates that confuse me, I will be asking for as much material as I can to get on the level of the Debaters. This should not be mistaken for me "doing the work for you," --I simply like to learn and if you are a good teacher, you should always be challenging me, not the other way around.

T/FMWK: fine… you need an impact though. I generally prefer T over FMWK because it requires the NEG to at least tangentially engage the 1AC which makes for better debates. Just don't be a robot please. Have a compelling caselist that proves abuse. Have a compelling T-Versions that shows that you thought about/considered the 1AC.

 Theory: Theory for the hek of Theory is annoying and perhaps pointless. Clash is great and will win speaker pints. Let’s try and keep it clean but if not, I totally understand and won’t kill your speaker points.

 AFF: win your stuff. 2ACs/1ARs that forget about the case are frustrating to me. 
Bad K Affs = not fun
Good K Affs = Life = YES
Big Stick Affs = too many cards, too fast on tags/evidence-- if this is you, I want to be able to hear evidence/warrants... Like, is that too much to ask???

 DA: Great option for the NEG. Love PTX debates. Impact calculus is a MUST especially if you don’t have a CP that solves all of the AFF. DA Turns the case analysis is exciting to me.

 CP: Fair. Have a net benefit. 
-Sneaky/tricky Advantage CPs is a lost art I love seeing deployed effectively (put them on the Advantage Flow btw). 

 K: YES. Watch the high theory though. I WILL be an engaged listener/reader/evaluator. 

 Speed: I can hear speed perfectly fine. I think that debate has gotten too fast however. If I’m not flowing what you want me to be flowing then you’re probably going too fast. I prefer clarity over speed. Things like theory and T are hard to flow as it is so please be considerate when speaking. I will let you know once to be clear; after that, I will begin to penalize you through your speaker points.

Debate is a game and should be fun. But it isn’t always a game. It is supposed to be hard and make you feel uncomfortable at times. This is universally true for all competitive activates. Respect each other and listen to what is being said. You are privileged to be here and so I ask that you honor that privilege.

0-25 You were probably violent and pissed me off. I also probably told you about yourself during the debate
27.5 Decent/average. Forgivable slip ups 
28 Great moments. Could be cleaner
 28.5 “ “ you will probably break
 29 “ “ you impressed the hell out of me
 29.5 “ “ I am now a fan
 31 Ask Lyra DeCastro, debated for Brooklyn Tech High School and literally gave me Goosebumps… 

 *Stealing prep is legitimate to me
 *Time stops when you say it stops (speech, prep, or otherwise)
 *Include me on the email chain/flash—I don’t like to call for cards/begin reading evidence at the end of the round

 Eamil:
Jide134@gmail.com
  