
  I debated for 4 years at Mayde Creek High School in Houston, TX and now I'm a coach, part-time judge, and full time student at the University of Houston as a finance major. I competed on the TOC circuit for 3 years and qualified as a senior. I've also competed on the NFL circuit placing 14th at nationals, and on the Texas UIL circuit placing 3rd in Texas. So, I have experience with various debate styles and open to any one you wish to employ. As a caveat, this is my first year judging. I find, however, that it is fairly easy to win my ballot if you are able to be comparative. By being "comparative" I mean explain the interaction between your arguments versus the your opponent's. As simple as this sounds, debaters tend to assume the judge can draw lines for them.

Speed: Giving my preference on a scale of 1-10 would be futile. Just be clear and I'll follow what you are saying. If you speak at 330wpm and are clear - awesome. I will not yell "clear" in round. First, I don't like yelling; it's bad for one's throat and second, I would not yell "don't forget the theory argument", so I don't see why I should help you out in other ways that require a verbal command during your speeches. Make me happy: be clear. Slow down after author names (especially if you extend by using author names) and slow down after tags. Other than that, you're fine. Cards can be spread because they don't involve to much thinking. If they do, however, invoke a considerable amount of contemplation, emphasize the warrants you are going to extend or want me to flow.

Assumptions: No judge is truly tabula rasa. I assume that theory comes before substance; theory is a matter of competing interpretations; only real abuse matters; and topicality comes before the AC. These are going to be my assumptions, however these are only my assumptions until a debater argues otherwise. Definitions should be fair and I will award you with low speaks if you win off of a shifty definition - that's just my way of retaliation for not good debate. Feel free to argue morality doesn't exist and justice is indeterminant. Maybe it is; maybe not. These are interesting arguments when written and explained articulately.

Preferences: I prefer that both debaters offer some weighing mechanism (or agree upon one). Needless to say, this is how debate rounds are won (or lost for that matter). I do not prefer listening to "postmodern" philosophy (I use quotes because "postmodern" has a different definition amongst debaters than formally identified academically), unless it is topic-specific, cut well, and explained well. I'd also prefer that your author actually agrees with what you're arguing. These are all things that will increase your chances of winning and/or will be reflected on your speaker points.

Non-traditional stuff: I've ran and debated counter plans, kritiks, ironic positions, critical positions, theory, topicality, PICs/VICs, and performances. BUT, although I am familiar with them, you have the burden to tell me how I should deal with the case that you are presenting me with (once again, a decision calculus is requisite). Why is a narrative useful and why should I vote for it? A critique better link to the opponent's case, not just to the writers of the resolution.

Speaker Points:

30: Amazing. Expected to be in late out rounds.28-29: Impressive.27.5: Average Speaker.25-27: Not a good round.
Ask me questions because this paradigm is far from all-inclusive. I'm not bothered by specific questions, just don't come in and ask me, "do you have paradigms?". My response will be a sardonic 'yes'.
  