
  I debated at the Bodine High school for International affairs for 2 years, competing at the TOC both Junior and Senior years clearing at “The Tournament of Champions”, and the Top Speaker at the 2010 Yale tournament.

As a disclaimer to keep everything honest I’m apolitical I do not care about the school you attend, our relationship or the relationship I may have with your coach or your rep. I call debates the way I see them, if you don’t like this please strike me it’ll save drama.

Speed- Like most things in life they are done best at a slow to moderate pace. I,e. I do not want to hear you foaming at the mouth or inconsistent breathing patterns when you are trying to go 400 wpm. If I did not hear the content of a card due to speed or because of clarity I will not read it after the round nor consider it if it was dropped. Furthermore, I will yell clear twice after the second time you will definitely not gain anything higher than a 28.5.

Argumentation- I will not listen to skepticism or any arguments that say that oppression is good toward particular individuals. I will not auto drop you for running skepticism I just won’t evaluate it. However, I will drop you for running the latter.
A.) I do have a preference toward hearing arguments we label critical. No that does not mean recycled blocks from policy, arguments in which I can tell you have done your reading and are explained easily will be rewarded and one will be notified in the rfd. No it does not mean you automatically get a 30 but, you will gain at least one more point then I originally would have given you.
B.) I also reward debaters who make nuanced analytical arguments in the framework debate. In response to arguments in framework whether they are deontology or Utilitarianism or a kritik of the state/ orientalism etc. If you can make interesting warranted analytical arguments in response to these theories you will be rewarded.
C.) Run any strategy you will however I believe the activity should be one aimed toward communication reading from a file with no eye contact or adjustment I,e. being robotic wont earn you a 30 even if you do well. However, I wont tank your speaks either- I just would really hate the debate.

Cross Examination- I do flow cross X. Furthermore, I will reward debaters who can be perceptionally dominant as well gain damning concessions. Think of it this way the more concessions you gain in cross X that help your next speak the better I will be more likely to understand your next speech as well as additional points you may gain.
Foul language is an automatic 25. Any rudeness will be rewarded with a 15 at maximum and will decrease considerably based on the severity.
Disads- are fine.
Kritiks- Enjoyed if debated with understanding and clear links. Remember I cannot vote for a kritik I do not understand.

Arguments that question the nature of the activity and community will be evaluated. Empirically these have been labeled (Aesthetics, Feminist Kritiks of debates, Challenges of white privilege etc) Running these arguments well will result in good points even if you dont win. However, I will not give out extra credit on the flow so to speak just because you do run them (meaning you can still lose) However I will not vote on arguments that do not engage these positions.

Theory- I view theory as an issue of competing interpretations. Not competing interpretations in the traditional sense that you need a shell but, in the sense that the debate is about which view of debate is best. If you want to run a critism of theory or just make general arguments in a form that is not a shell fell free to do so, in fact I encourage one to do so. I feel the way theory is run in the status quo is bad , and I wish to see new alternatives to engage this position.
Strategy- Debaters that earn 30s with me in the back are word economical and make decisions. Going for everything in front of me may win you the round (rarely these days) but will not earn you a 30. Making a choice and explaining why that choice is best confidently is the way to win in front of me. This can be said in many ways but basically don’t debate scared.
Aff debaters- New argumentation will not be allowed in the 2ar however, some new argument comparison will be allowed in the 2ar.

In the end be smart, be clutch make new arguments, be funny have fun!
  