
  Polytechnic School 2010-2014
Stanford University 2014-2018
Overview: I'm happy to listen to whatever you want to read (barring arguments that are actually morally repugnant). Do debate however you want to do it, and do it well. I'm fine with speed, just make sure to slow down on plan texts and dense T/theory shells. Tech over truth in most instances. 
General Stuff: Tag team CX is fine. Prep ends when the flashdrive is out of your computer/the email is sent. I'd like to be included on email chains when possible. I'm sympathetic to most tech issues, but please don't abuse this system. I'll be timing the debate, but it's always good to time yourselves/your oponents as a backup. If the content of a particular card becomes controversial during the round, I'll probably read it after the round. That being said, good evidence spin/explanation and application during the round can go a long way. Evidence quality is super important, and one good card with extremely clear warrants that are well-defended can usually beat a lot of mediocre cards. If you want to record the debate, ask the other team before recording their speeches. 
If you have any questions, feel free to ask before the debate. 
Cheating: Don't do it. If you notice the other team clipping cards, take an audio recording from the point that you've noticed it so that I can compare what's being read to what's in the document. Cheating accusations will stop the debate, so make sure you are absolutely certain before making such a claim. Marking cards is fine, just make it clear where in the card you've stopped, and offer to give the other team a copy of your speech document with marks. In most cases, cheating will result in a loss and 0 speaker points for both speakers. I will resolve these issues based on the tournament's policy. 
Topic: I haven't judged many rounds on the surveillance topic, so make sure you're clear with jargon/abbreviations. 
DAs: The more aff-specific the better, but I'm happy to hear a generic done well. "Zero risk" arguments exist. Smart turns case arguments can win most case v. DA rounds. Impact defense is a solid idea for both teams. If the impact scenario is so obscure that you have no defense for it, it can probably be defeated by smart analytics. 
CPs: Theory-wise, most CPs with aff-specific solvency advocates are probably fair game. Well researched and aff-specific PICs and agent CPs are great. Well run generics are fine, but I can definitely be persuaded by Aff theory arguments on consult/conditions CPs. If you're reading a word PIC, be sure to defend why textual competition alone is sufficient. 
Ks: I read a lot of Ks in high school, and I'm mostly focused on the K in college, so I really like watching a good K debate. That being said, please don't change your strategy to appeal to what you think I want to hear. I'd be much happier with a good politics round than an uncomfortable K round. I won't kick the alternative unless you tell me to. I don't necessarily think Ks need an alt, but you ought to justify why yours doesn't before you wish away the perm. When deciding these debates, I start with evaluating the frameworks both teams have advanced, and I'll adjudacate the rest of the debate under that framework. 
T: As I said above, make sure to slow down if you want me to get all of your standards down. I default to competing interpretations if nobody makes a reasonability argument, but I can be persuaded by both. Topical version of the aff arguments can win these debates, so affs should take care not to drop them. I evaluate interpretations and standards like a CP/DA debate, so impact calculus about what voting for either interpretation of the topic means in the context of this/later deabtes is important to me.
Framework v. Non-traditional Affs: I think Affs ought to be connected to the topic in some way, but I'm not convinced that they need to advocate instrumental action by the USFG. Both of these preferences are up for debate, and I'll vote for the team I feel has made better arguments on framework. Advocacy statements and role of the ballot claims can be good in a lot of instances, but they definitely aren't necessary for my ballot. Spend your speech time how you want to, and just make sure to explain at some point what I'm voting for if I vote for you. 
  