
  James Allen
Hallsville '9-'13
University of Texas - Arlington '13-'17

I competed extensively on the UIL, NTDA, TFA, and NFL circuits in North and East Texas.

A few things to consider when debating in front of me:

I consider myself tabula rasa. If I am not given some framework/paradigm to consider, I will default policymaker/comparative worlds.

I am not predisposed to reject any particular stylistic elements of argumentation.

On that note, I do have certain predispositions given my experience:

T- Must be completely shelled. And please give me warrants for your voters of education and fairness, not just those labels. I will easily vote for T.

DA- My standard for DAs is very high. You will need to do a lot of work in establishing the argument for me to be able to feel comfortable voting for it. To help achieve that end, please give me the coherent thesis of the DA as well as necessary brink establishments for impacts.

CPs- I love counterplans. I especially love well-run, non-generic counterplans. I will vote for a utopian CP.

K- I was a K debater in high school. I have a high standard for debaters to meet. I consider myself well-read on most K literature. I specialized in Foucault, Nietzsche, Coercion, Ableism, and most postmodernist positions. I will vote for Ks introduced in the 1AR.

Theory- must be shelled. I will vote for RVIs. I won't vote for unwarranted arguments.

Narratives- I love narratives, but you must warrant why it is imperative I must consider them as offense.

Projects- You will need to do a lot of work to convince me to vote for your project, especially if I believe it is insincere.

Speed- I can handle a 10 of 10 but prefer a rate of 6-8 of 10.

Extensions- I will account for the time skew in the 1AR if I believe that it is necessary. You must extend the warrants and implications of arguments in the rebuttals for me to consider it as offense. If I end up having to intervene, I will be considerably displeased.

Flex prep- I am not opposed as long as a consensus is reached among the debaters.

To get 30 speaker points: Don't be EXCESSIVELY catty. Employ a smart strategy in the round. Write my ballot for me. Depict a cohesive story that explains how I should vote. 

If you have further questions, please do not hesitate to ask them before we begin the round. 
  