
  Sequoia HS, '14
UC Berkeley, '18

I debated in LD for 3 years (10-12th). My focus was local league tournaments, but I went to 6 circuit invitationals during my junior and senior years. I am now Director of the Sequoia High School team.

Speed: Flowing speed rounds was very hard for me bc I didn't have training in it. And I haven't flowed spreading since Feb 2014. Therefore, if you have kind of slower cases, please run them. However, you can flash me your constructives before they start and I'll read along as I flow. If you utilize this opportunity, please make sure it is easy to follow along on your doc.
DISCLAIMER: If I don't get them down on the flow during the speech, I won't back-fill the arguments later on.

Theory: I suggest you use theory as a LAST RESORT. I have an incredibly high threshold for voting on theory. If I see you use it as a default or if you could have actually engaged your opponent's argument, then I will reflect my distaste in the speaker points. I am also not the most qualified person to judge theory, so if you do run it, please make sure you are winning something else.

Ks: I am cool with them. Make sure you make the link VERY clear and strong. I enjoy Ks based on power structures, especially related to gender and heteronormativity.
DISCLAIMER: I never ran Ks and only hit them twice. Therefore, make sure you make it clear how I can vote for you based on a K. (Hint: you give me a legit alternative).

Plans, CPs, Disads: I loved running plans and CPs in high school. Bring it on. I don't see a disad as a reason to vote for you, but rather a reason why not to vote for the opponent.

Judge Intervention: If neither team gives me a clear way to vote, I will have to decide what argument was the most persuasive. Please don’t let it come to that. In general, I am human, so I cannot be completely objective. I can’t promise you my decisions will always be perfect. However, I am comfortable not voting for an argument that an opponent skillfully argues is downright stupid.

If I didn't cover something, please feel free to ask me before the round. 
  