
  I debated for 4 years at Harrison High School in NY, and now attend Providence College.

I don't judge often so please do not go top speed. I'll yell clear but it's the debater's responsibility to make sure the judge can understand what s/he is saying.

I never really ran tricks, dense philosophy, excessive theory and all that stuff, so I'd prefer to listen to a good substantive debate or Ks that have clear links to the topic. No weighing between competing arguments would make the argument difficult to evaluate. That being said, I still understand philosophy, theory etc. since I debated it, so you can still run it in front of me. However, some things I don't like and will give your opponent leeway on are:
-Tricky arguments like hidden a prioris. If you want to run an a priori or trick, make it obvious and developed.
-Blippy arguments. If I don't catch an argument you said because it was blippy, that's your fault
-Divine command theory or any cases about God - religious stuff doesn't belong in a debate context. If your opponent runs Divine Command theory, it would be best to answer it by saying these types of arguments don't belong in debate. I wouldn't vote for an argument that says God doesn't exist or forces the opponent to argue that God doesn't exist.

Theory: Theory is fine as long as there's real abuse. Even though I don't like frivolous theory, I will still evaluate it, but will easily buy "no abuse claims" against it. Having a million theory spikes in a case is confusing for both the judge and opponent. I don't default to competing interps or reasonability; whichever one you tell me you're doing is fine. RVIs are fine.

Policy args: I'm fine with policy arguments, but super specific plans, CPs, and politics DAs need to be very clearly explained. I'm cool with kritiks but the role of the ballot/judge needs to be clear.

Micropolitics: If you're passionate about something and want to run it as a micropol case, that's fine just be careful about the way you present it. If you use your position to personally attack your opponent, that's not ok.

Speaks: Around the 27-30 range - 30 if you were amazing and below 27 if you were super sketch or rude. You'll get higher speaks if you make me laugh

Don't cheat. Cheating consists of doing things like giving people the wrong case, making it impossible to scroll on your laptop, or counting up with your timer so that you give yourself an 8 minute NC.
I will not buy flash drive theory and am not a fan of disclosure theory.
  