
  I competed in policy and parli in high school. In college, I competed in LD and compete in Parli. I coached high school parli for a year in LA. 
Debate is a game, do what you think is your best strategic option to win. That being said, do not marginalize or demean your opponents: be somewhat polite. 
SPEED: I have a very high threshold for speed, but try to maintain clarity. If you become unclear or your words become mumbled, I will clear you. If your opponent(s) clears you multiple times and you do not slow down, I will deduct speaker points. If your opponent(s) clears you multiple times, you do not slow down, & they read theory about it well enough: I will probably drop you. 
THEORY: I will not vote on potential abuse. Otherwise, I like a smart, theory heavy debate when it's warranted and well explained. 
K's: I guess some people would describe me as a bit of a K hack. I like critical arguments on the negative, but have a slightly higher threshold for them out of the aff. This doesn't mean I'm opposed to hearing them out of the aff but just need a clear cut analysis of what about the topic specifically warrants your critical perspective.
PERFORMANCE: It is your debate round so I have no problem evaluating performance debate. That being said, once you use your performance in a competitive space: it is now an argument. This, especially if it's identity based, can get difficult for some debaters. I have read performance args before and they can be compelling, if well executed. If poorly executed, they can be uncomfortable for all. 
FLASHING CARDS: I would like a copy of all file transfers. This can happen before prep starts, as long as it is quick. 
SHADOW EXTENSIONS: If you don't extend arguments in the 2AC and go for it in the 1AR (or you read it in the PMC and don't extend it in the MG), I feel uncomfortable voting on it. I want clean extensions of your arguments throughout the speech for it to be viable. 
Read all interps, alt texts, plan texts, and perm texts TWICE.
  