
  TOC Update: I am very uncomfortable with evaluating theory - those of you familiar with me will know I prefer not to hear it at all. It is on YOU if you run theory. I would simply rather not hear it at all. 

I am the head forensics instructor and coach at Keller High School in Keller, Texas. Previously I have coached at Central High School (also in Keller) and Pampa High School (Pampa, Texas). This is my sixth year in forensics coaching and my fifth year in Region 2 of the Texas Forensic Association.

Basically, I have the view that Lincoln-Douglas is living and breathing. The event changes so frequently and offers vast opportunity for creative application of case frameworks and tactics. Therefore, it is not really fair to hinder that creativity. With that said, I still respect that this debate began as a way to argue the core of what human beings build societies upon - Values. Nothing makes me happier than great value argument and analysis - complete with well weighed standards/criterion. However, the movement of this community being as it is, I realize this is not always the most practical or applicable way to frame cases in our modern debate world.It is not always the best choice to argue value debate - especially concerning policy-oriented topics.

I am open to most things, but I will not buy BS. There had better be clear cause. If you run a Kritik, please be mindful of the rules of k's and how to apply them in round. If you run narrative or anything tricky or unusual, guide me through so I can see logic clearly.Signpost, impact clearly, and - for the love of all things holy - WEIGH!!!!!

When spreading, please be CLEAR. I would say I'm a 6 on a scale of 10 with speed, if that means anything. I will say clear 3 times. If you fail to be clear, I will drop you. If you are poor at spreading, then simply do not try it in front of me. This does not mean you should assume you will be fine. If you have issues with accents, braces, any sort of speaking issue or simply just cannot speak quickly without stumbling all over yourself, do not spread in front of me. I will give terrible speaks if I feel your spread merits them. I also do not want to bark at you through the round to clear it up. Strive to give me a very CLEAR reading of tags, card names, and impacts. Also, keep your own time, as I have a ballot/flow to tend to and do not want to be bothered with timing you in the round.

I do not like observations that are "blippy" (or, for that matter, any type of argument that is blippy). If you are attempting to wear your opponent down, do it with respectful approach to content. I will not appreciate any argument that simply has no warrant OR no merit to the resolution.

I also will vote you down for abusive argumentation as well, even if it is warranted. I will not stand for outrageous definitions, theory that is abusive or simply silly, or any argument that results in resurrection of the dead, advocates for genocide, or whatever else you may think is cute or entertaining. DO NOT waste my time and effort of judging you...and don't embarrass your coach.

I pay a good deal of attention to non-verbal communication during debates - this is how you win your speaks from me. This is something I have always been mindful of and has only grown more since I have been a teacher. In other words - your facial expressions, clothing, tone and physical movement are being noted. Perfect speaks are tough to win from me. Also, rudeness, abusiveness, or inappropriateness will dock you points as well.

Finally, I am most likely to vote for the arguments that have been proven most meaningful to the resolution - that address the issues of the resolution and that offer solvency. So make that clear in round when you impact and when you crystallize.

SPEAKS: Make things clear to me, above all else. I also deduct speaks for displays of arrogance or rude behavior, and if it is egregious I will simply drop you. 

You can ask questions if you need to before the round. Please demonstrate you care about this activity by minding the behavior rules and appropriate dress codes. Good luck!
  