
  Meredith Angueira
Brown University
Debated in high school for 4 years at Carrollton School of the Sacred Heart

The following are ways I tend to think about certain arguments. With that said, everything is debatable. I will use my flow to inform my decision (so be CLEAR).
---I tend to default to the belief that I should vote for the best policy option
--The aff must defend a plan implemented by the United States federal government
-- Dropped arguments are true
--2NR should be protected

DAs:
I generally tend to believe that link controls the direction of uniqueness – unless you give me a reason not to
Turns the case – Tell me which I should evaluate first in my decision: Magnitude? Timeframe? Probability?
1ar needs to explicitly answer turns the case args (extending the link/internal link to the advantage)

Counterplans:
CP should have high quality solvency advocates
Perms are a better way to eliminate unproductive counterplan discussions than theory!
Textual vs. Functional competition – it’s up to the debaters to tell me how I should evaluate CP competition
Conditionality Good – with that said I am more sympathetic to the affirmative when the neg has read multiple conditional options
Consult/Condition – Context specific, well-crafted perms can generally solve NBs (at least for CPs like consult NATO, etc.)
PICs Good – especially when they are aff specific, PIC out of the mandates of the plan
Word PICs – Neg leaning
Alternate non-USFG actors – Aff leaning
Frame theory and competition args in terms of offense-defense. Interpretations need offensive reasons to prefer, and why it outweighs the opponent’s offense.

Topicality:
Voting issue (not a reverse voting issue)
T is about competing interpretations
Both sides need case lists
High quality evidence and source comparison are crucial

Kritiks:
The more aff specific the better
You must give me a reason why it is good to disregard my conceptions of rationality, pragmatism, and aversion to unnecessary death

Performance Strategies:
You must make a clear argument throughout the debate
The team that best resolves the impact framework debate will have a good chance of winning the debate
I generally believe debate is a good, educational activity.

Speaker points:
Clarity – this is a speaking activity and the manner in which you present your arguments matters
The more apparent it is that debaters have worked hard (case specific strategies, good case debates, mastery of the material), the higher their speaker points will be

Debate is a safe for the exchange of ideas. I will not tolerate any forms of discrimination or harassment during rounds. Do not clip cards or read them out of context. Debaters generally work hard to cut evidence, don’t save their cards or keep them without the other teams permission. With that said, if a team asks you for cites, you should give them cites.
As a tip for being a generally good person, follow disclosure policies and be honest with the other team when disclosing what you have read in past rounds, and whether the “new” aff or advantage you are breaking is actually new. 
Prep time stops when the jump drive is out of the computer. When the other team is opening the speech doc, do not prep!
I would like speeches jumped to me if they are going to be read off of the computer. 
  