
  I did policy debate at St. Francis High School in Mountain View, CA from 2009-2013. I cleared an numerous bid tournaments around the country and went to several months of debate camp during my high school summers. I was a 1N/2A all four years and loved it. #2APrideI was a lab assistant in the summer of 2013 at the Berkeley Debate Camp so I've judged 20ish rounds on this topic. I currently work at the Bay Area Urban Debate League and teach debate at high schools and judge at the BAUDL tournaments.

Here are two philosophies that I largely agree with so you can take a look at those:

http://judgephilosophies.wikispaces.com/Gil+Epner%2C+Mia

https://judgephilosophies.wikispaces.com/Gray%2C+Robin

I believe that the debaters should be able to make whatever arguments they want in round - they just have to explain why they are relevant and why that means they should win. That being said, I do enjoy debates about the topic but I will not be biased against debates that are not when evaluating the round.

Ks - I enjoy a good and explained K debate. Please please explain the link, impact, alternative, etc. Be CLEAR about what the K is and why that means the aff should lose. Throwing around a bunch of terminology and then saying the aff kills value to life does not make a good argument. Also, 2 minute long block overviews of the K are usually unnecessary and wordy - if you must, try to make it specific to the aff.

Paperless teams (which I assume is almost everyone by now) - do not take forever to flash. I do not count it as prep but if it starts to get ridiculous I will start counting it as prep. Also, the speech doc is not the flow and don't be prep-stealers during flashing. If your laptop breaks, falls, or bursts into flames during your speech, the time does not stop. That is why you should have a flow and your partner should have the speech doc as well.

Random - I like smart arguments and I loveeee some great jokes. HAVE FUN! Debate is a fun and intellectual game unlike any other so try to enjoy it. If you all are enjoying the round, I'll be enjoying a lot more too.
  