
  Eigen Aoki (It’s pronounced Ay-gen)
eggsta626@gmail.com
Debated at Oak Park River Forest High School (2010-2013)
Debating at Augustana College (2013-14)

This is my first year judging high school tournaments, but I debated for 3 years in high school
and am currently debating at the college level. I’d say I’m more of a K debater, but that does not
mean read the most ridiculous and absurd Kritik you can pull out of your evidence set. Debate is
a game that gives students the opportunity to use their communication and argumentative skills
to discuss, critique and analyze issues that they deem important. However, for the purposes of
the debate space, there should be an “impact” to your arguments.

Here are my general thoughts on specific things

T - It’s definitely a voting issue, and don’t bother saying it’s a reverse voting issue. I’m a fan
of T debates where the interpretations are well explained and the limits you are trying to set
are clear. Good contextual evidence helps. I’m not familiar with “the core of the topic” yet, so
those argument won’t get you very far. Even if you are winning every other part of a T debate,
if there’s no impact, I’ll be more lenient with the aff. If you want me to get every standard and
every argument, slow down a little bit.

DA’s – Nothing out of the ordinary here. Intrinsicness is not a reason that the politics dis-ad goes
away for good, its just a reason that their needs to be a stronger link to the aff.

CP’s – Nothing out of the ordinary here either. I’ll vote on whatever CP you read, but make sure
you clearly articulate why the CP doesn’t link to your net benefit. I’ve recently come to like
Word PICs, and don’t think they are cheating. That said, I don’t want to hear a “The” PIC, make
it specific to the aff’s advocacy.

K’s – I have no problem with Kritiks, but make sure you thoroughly explain them. What is the
Link, what’s the impact and what does the alternative do. I will not do the work for you to piece
together your Kritik coming out of the 2NR. Aff side: Realism is not the most responsive answer,
and neither is framework. Explain why your aff overcomes the Kritik and why the alt doesn’t
solve. If you do substantial work on the perm debate you should be fine.

Theory - I will not vote on reverse voting issues on T and perm theory unless the aff does
something extremely and blatantly abusive. I’m totally fine with voting on Conditionality
and other theory, but like T debates, its probably a good idea to slow down. Make sure your
theoretical violations have a terminal impact.

Performance – I’m open to different approaches and methods of debate. That said, make sure
there is an argument. Why is your method better? Framework is responsive, but you’ll have to do
a good job comparing the two methods of debate. Debate has its flaws, but I think there is tons of
educational value to it, and will most likely not vote on “debate is bad.”

Speaking – be clear, don’t speak into your computer screen. I’m fine calling out clear for you a
couple times, but if it gets excessive, speaker points will drop.

Flashing – I won’t usually take prep for it, but if it takes a ridiculous amount of time I’ll just start
prep again. The 1nr should never need time to put their speech doc on a flash drive, I’ll definitely
take prep for that. Don’t steal prep time during flashing, it’s a big pet peeve of mine.

Misc – I’ll probably flow on an excel spreadsheet, and if you ever want my flow let me know, I
can email it or flash it to you.

I think debate should be a community open to anybody that wants to be part of it, and therefore
I will not tolerate discrimination within the debate space. Don’t be mean to your opponents, and
don’t cheat. Debate should be fun!
  