
  Background: 4 years of high school policy debate, speech, and mock trial at Bishop Kelly High School in Boise, Idaho (2000-2004). Policy debate at Northwestern University. Current law student. I've been judging on and off for the past 9 years; I'm not as "in the know" of the debate world as I used to be.

Substantive Preferences: I'm an old school policy debater. I normally prefer traditional policy arguments: disads, CPs, politics, and case arguments. I think they make for the best debates and are at the heart of the activity. I will vote on kritiks that articulate clear impacts and alternatives. Those that have more policy-like impacts tend to be more persuasive to me. However, almost any reason to prefer, if argued properly, can win me over. If you've won kritiks in front of policy judges before, don't be afraid to run your K in front of me. I don't have any issues with topicality. The aff must be topical. Theory arguments are fine. Theory can win you an issue or argument. Abuse will have to be blatant or egregious for you to win the debate on theory arguments alone.

Stylistic Preferences: As I mentioned, I've been in and out of the debate world for a while, so please be clear. Speed is fine if you're clear. I like organization. Use of numbers and/or letters is highly encouraged. I like to see specifically where your arguments clash rather than having to search for them on my flow. Numbering and lettering makes this easier. I am a stickler for time. Do not try to squeak out extra prep time out of me. Be polite and professional. Rudeness will quickly erode your credibility. Poise, preparedness, and polish distinguish a good debater from a great one. I will give an oral critique and disclosure (rules permitting).

Evidence: I was one of the last debaters that actually photocopied and "cut" cards. I'm told lots of debate evidence now comes from online sources. This instinctively makes me skeptical. I won't question a source unless it's raised or is clearly erroneous. If you have a good argument for your opponent's source, don't be afraid to raise it. If I'm in doubt, I will tend to apply common reason to the argument. I will call for evidence if the debate requires it.

Please feel free to ask me any questions at any point in time.
  