
  Debated policy four years for Des Moines Roosevelt: I really like the activity of policy debate and will be sad if someone argues that debate is bad.
First three years I defended the USFG. Final year I said screw that I've learned enough of that and want more education so I shifted to a kritikal DnG aff.

What I think in general as a judge:

Judge intervention is bad. Run what you want how you want and be prepared to defend it.

Kritikal debate is probably good for policy debate.

Policy debate is probably good for policy debate.

Fiat can be good or bad, that's a debate to be had.

Kritikal debate is not owned solely by the negative: you can run your K affs and win in front of me. But this is the Education topic, and if you begin the 1AC urging me to wake up from the matrix and chase bunnies down rabbit holes I will be amused but not impressed (and likely not persuaded). As long as your K aff has to do with Education then we're good, and on framework I'll vote for whoever wins the line by line.

If your aff is not related to the topic, then the neg should be able to run 8 minutes of framework and win in front of me, unless the neg just absolutely botches the framework flow somehow.

Your best evidence is always the opponent's evidence. Example: Their card says building space elevators would solve all these different problems, but in the unhighlighted section it also says it will cost 2 trillion dollars and is unfeasible. If you can point out situations like this, you will likely win that argument.

For younger teams: Okay so the other team dropped an argument.... Aight but you still have to explain to me what the argument is and why it's relevant to the debate. DO NOT JUST REPEAT THE PHRASE THEY DROPPED IT THEY DROPPED IT. If the aff drops T and you just say they dropped T without explaining your T shell I won't vote on it.

Arguments that you can win on but will probably cost you a few decimal points when it comes to speaks
A (or any other letter)SPEC
Spending DA
Death Good
Trump Good
The K I've never heard before and don't understand what it is at the end of the round.

Arguments that you can lose with but will probably gain you a few decimal points:
Cap K
Perm advocacy (aka discoing)
Deleuze
Ableism
The K I've never heard of before and explained well
Case Specific DAs/CPs

Show that you are passionate about the activity and I'll increase your speaks. Show me the love, not hate (anger for the other team, loud yelling, etc)

I'll keep track of everyone's time. I'm chill. No prep for flashing. But prep stealing that I see may impact speaks.
  