
  3 years high school experience
 2 years college Parliamentary debate experience
 10 years judging experience
 7 years coaching experience
 I come from a traditional background in LD debate, though my judging policy has broadened within the past few years. I typically do not mind a nontraditional approach to LD debate as long as the advocacy is clearly articulated. You must be able to explain to me how it logically functions within the round and how to evaluate it. Do not assume that I automatically understand what you’re running. For example, theory, K’s, etc. must be clearly explained to me and why I’m voting on them. I am by no means an expert on these types of arguments, and don't want a debater to run them just because he/she can. I need to be sufficiently persuaded that your alternative approach to the resolution (other than simpling proving the resolution true or false) is necessary. If it doesn’t make sense, I’m not voting for it. Just note that I prefer a standard debate with impacts weighed back to it to evaluate the round. This being said, you will not automatically win the round just for offering a standard when your opponent doesn't have one. Show me how you're winning offense.
 I typically only vote on what’s said within a round. In other words, I will not do the work for you. I want arguments, warrants, and impacts to be clearly extended throughout the round. I will not vote on something that is not extended. The only time I will ever let outside biases that are not mentioned in the round influence a decision is if it violates debate ethics, such as intentional misinterpretation of cards. 
 I am not ok with spreading. However, I am ok with some speed that is clear. On a scale 1 – 10, 1 being an slow pace and 10 being spreading, I would rate an acceptable speed up to a 7. However, you should always slow down some when reading tags and authors. If I miss something in the round due to speed and/or lack of clarity I don't consider it to be my "fault." You have been warned about my tolerance. I will definitely alter speaker points based on clarity. I will also deduct speaker points to any debater who is rude or unprofessional and you risk dropping my ballot. 

  