
  Ryan Atallah
Fairview High School (Colorado), 2012 Grad
Stanford Class of 2016
Competed in Lincoln Douglas (primary), Foreign/National Extemp, Policy, Public Forum
Currently competing in APDA with the Stanford Debate Society

Background: Qualified to NFL Nationals (but not a TOC debater), went to debate camp twice (VBI and SNFI), placed 2nd at Colorado State and competed in local tournaments regularly through high school.
Central paradigm: I will not do extra work for you on the flow unless you don't provide weighing mechanisms and force me to weigh arguments for you. It will help you immensely to consistently explain why your standard is preferable to your opponents and how your advocacy links to your standard. I prefer specific and detailed analysis to sweeping generalizations. You should warrant every one of your arguments, but if I have to I will vote on an unwarranted claim if your opponent fails to defensively eliminate it (though I will prefer warranted arguments to unwarranted arguments).

Specifics
Speed: If you are clear, loud, and well organized, then I should be able to flow most speed (though probably not the very fastest). Don't forget to slow down for tags and signposts. The more you explain your arguments, number individual points, and clarify your link story the easier it will be for me to follow you. I will say "clear" if your speed is too fast or you're not enunciating sufficiently.
Theory: I will not vote on theory unless there clear and serious done by your opponent, and I see it as a tool to check behavior that harms the activity. A good theoretical argument states and justifies the effect your opponent's theoretical position has on debate, a reason why that position is harmful for debate, and a comparative evaluation showing your theoretical position is preferable. I frequently see debaters use theory as a tool to gain a competitive advantage by leveraging time skew and unique training, in the absence of legitimate abuse. I consider this in itself to be harmful for debate and you should not do it. If your opponent unreasonably runs theory, I will likely be receptive to an RVI.
Speaker Points: The best way to improve your speaker points is to be very organized and run arguments that are interesting, unique, and well-developed. I enjoy twists on stock positions and unconventional advocacies.

Feel free to ask me paradigmatic questions during the round.
  