
  Alexander Atallah
Fairview High School (Colorado), 2010 Grad
Stanford Class of 2014
Competed in Lincoln Douglas (primary), Foreign/National Extemp, Policy, Original Oratory, Public Forum

Background: Qualified to NFL Nationals (but not a TOC debater), went to debate camp twice (VBI and SNFI), and competed in local Colorado tournaments every other week or so
Biases: I'd love to think that I don't have any, but I tend to favor empirics over classical philosophy unless the topic is really classical in nature. Finally, I love cross-examination. If you do really well there, it will definitely help you for close decisions.
Central paradigm: I will not do extra work for you on the flow unless you don't provide weighing mechanisms and force me to weigh arguments for you. It will help you immensely to consistently explain why you are achieving the value with your criterion (and maybe your opponent's too) and why your opponent is not.

Specifics
2AR: If you're not confident that what you're saying isn't a new argument, don't say it, because it probably is. The 2AR is for crystallization. Talk about the criteria and the most important parts of the round, and restate why you're winning them.
Speed: I'm ok with most speed, but because I find it helpful when judges indicate what's definitely too fast or not clear enough, I'll say "clear" if you're going to fast or not enunciating. If I can't understand you, I assume that you ultimately won't mind this annoying interruption.
Speaker points: I will assign top speaks for near-perfect delivery and execution, minus one or two for delivery or execution that seems forced or self-challenged somehow. More than three from the top means that there's something in my feedback that I think you should remember and learn from.
Standing up: You don't have to stand if you don't want to, but it may help your clarity.
Roadmaps: I do not time roadmaps (until you start being subjective about the flow).

Feel free to ask me paradigmatic questions during the round.
  