
  High school debate: Bay Area Urban Debate League (4 years) Cal Prep

College debate: 
Weber State University 2013-2014
Fresno State University 2014 - current 

Email: jason.auro95@gmail.com email me questions or anything really 

Debate Influences: Deven Cooper, Max Bugrov, Omar Guevara, Joseph Flores, Ryan Saxe, and Perry Green

You should feel comfortable running anything in front of me. I will try to make this debate space as safe and respectful as possible. Really I just want you to be you do whatever you want during this debate. I feel that judges are suppose to be educators and I will do my best to my ability acknowledge every argument you have, but you have to keep it warranted and consistent throughout the debate. I will always tell each team 1) Who won and why (unless there is something against this in the tournament rules) and 2) How each team can get a lot better.

I first learned how to debate and judge as a tabula rasa, but I soon learned that this is impossible, but I will do everything I can to be unbiased. Dont get me wrong I will vote on things that I disagree with despite personal beliefs. 

BE NICE. When you are mean, rude, condescending etc, be prepared for some of the bad speaker points. There is a clear delineation between competitiveness and being mean.

Case:

Make sure to always extend it… at least somehow please. I had been in too many debates where people don’t mention case after the 1ac makes me so sad.

Straight up AFF: Sounds great

Half policy - half critical Affs: Like them run it

Critical adv with plan text: You got me interested 

Critical adv w/o plan text: You better have a reason why you don’t have a plan text.

"Crazy" radical affs: I will be excited for the round, but will have "high" expectations for you

Anti-Resolution affs: Aff should have Switch Side answers down

DA:

They are great run them if you want.

CP:

They cool nothing really special to say.

PIC’s: I really like them and add a DA to them ooo you got yourself cooking

Adv CP: Better have a benefit and/or turn the other adv :)

K: <3

You got my interest. I love K debates I probably read or know most of the high theory args but this does not mean you get magic leeway for the argument. You still have to explain everything step by step.

Framework:
If no FW was read in the round I will evaluate all the impacts by who ever did the best explanation and importance of it. 

I absolutely HATE the argument that “Policy Debate is about competing policy ideas” or “Traditional policy debate frameworks are best for evaluating debates.” I believe these interpretations are anti-educational and unethical, however I will still vote on it if it goes conceded.

CX:

I will flow it if there is anything really important in there, but please try to make it powerful. The bright line in what I mean by important is if it is mentioned in the round by the other team.

Ethical challenges/“clipping”:

Also if there are any ethical challenges the debate will go in either two ways.
A. If it is true the team loses automatically with 0 speaker points, but the round will still continue and I will tell the points if they never made an ethical problemB. The debate will continue but all the cards that were clipped will be taken out (Only in case of new debaters that never knew what clipping was).

Debate should be fun go have fun.
  