
  
Coach Strake Jesuit College Prep, Houston, Texas.
History and Political Science Major, Rice U.

I am first , a tabula rasa judge. I try to avoid intervention at all
costs. I warn you though, if I am left with no clear standard for the
round at the end because you have not weighed yours against theirs or
won one of the standards on the Affirmative, I will intervene.

I can handle any style of debate from pure rhetoric to meta theory,
but I prefer clear standards based debates which analyze and focus on
the real world issues and impacts raised by the resolution.

I will vote on topicality, meta theory, etc. I prefer to vote on the
basis of someone winning the standard and/or winning and linking
clearly articulated and warranted arguments to that standard.

Speed: I am fine with speed, but I don't like it. If you go too fast, I
will stop flowing. If I don't get it on the flow, I won't vote on it.

HOW TO PICK UP MY BALLOT

1. Tell me why your argument matters, what its impact is . Tell me
before the 2AR. When appropriate weigh it against your opponents
impacts.

2. Give me clear argumentation in your framework which set up your
Value and your Value Criterion as keys to your position and as clearly
linked to the resolution.

3. Link all arguments to your VC. No link, no weight in the round.....

4. I will pick up the debater who gives me the strongest harms
analysis. By "strongest" , I don't mean MOST, but the best quality
harms, the most clearly articulated and linked ones. One great harms
analysis is worth 30 blips or spread harms.

HOW DROP MY BALLOT

I don't vote you down because I don't like your style. Rarely, I will
vote you down for outrageously abusive behavior. Keep it civil,
professional and on topic and we will be fine.

SPEAKER POINTS
HOW TO GET GOOD SPEAKS
Speaker points are a reflection of how well you persuaded, how well you
integrated all the elements of LD debate. Thus
30= outstanding speaking, well organized speeches, excellent technique
and time allocation.
29= You fell just short in one of these: speaking, organization ,
technique or time allocation.
28= You fell just short in two of these: speaking, organization ,
technique or time allocation.
27=You fell just short in three of these: speaking, organization ,
technique or time allocation.
26= Serious problems in multiple areas.
25= Even more serious problems in multiple areas

I will reward good debating in close rounds with ties in speaker points, even if I can't give you the W.

HOW TO DROP SPEAKS

Unethical behavior will do it. This includes:

1. Lying. Don't tell me your opponent dropped something they clearly
did not. Don't make stuff up. I don't know everything, but I read the
literature.

2. Swearing. I am not impressed by teenagers using four letter words.

3. Belligerency in Cross-ex. I find it rude and poor training for civil
engagement which is one of the goals of learning to debate.

I will not go out of my way to find reasons to drop your points, but
you are on notice about these behaviors.

DISCLOSURE AND ORAL CRITIQUES

I will give you an oral critique if there is time. I will normally not
disclose, unless instructed to do so.

In short, I love to hear well argued rounds which center upon the
resolution.
  