
  I was a debater in high school and love policy debate quite a bit. I am a tabula rosa judge and I try not to be interventionist whenever possible, because of that I really enjoy good impact calculus. I am fine with speed but I need to be able to understand taglines, so if you need to slow down then do so. All in all I try to make sure debates are fun and enjoyable for everyone in the round. I also stress respect in my rounds, do not be rude to the other team, your partner or your judge.

Opinions on Arguments:
DAs- These are the back bone of offensive negative cases and provide the impacts that many people weigh. I feel like these are pretty basic and that most debaters have a good grasp of these, so I enjoy hearing them with in Negs.
CPs- These are harder to argue in many cases then any other argument because you have to prove competitiveness and how it cannot be permed. However these offer a lot of different options and generally they can be run well, I expect some work on why the CP is materially different and better.
Ks- This is one of my favorite parts of debate, it allows for education on topics far out of the normal public or private school style. I think that K debate is valuable and highly enjoy judging it because it was one of my favorite things to do. With that in mind, there is a lot of work to effectively run a K and I expect the team to do this work, I fee similarly with K affs. I can keep up with the philosophy and I would encourage you to feel free to break out that K or K aff that you have looking for a time to read.
T/Theory- This is some of the more difficult parts of debate. I am always down to hear why you think abuse has been commited in a debate round and if you can make a true case for why the Aff is untopical then do for it. However, you need to prove the abuse and spell out your voters. I expect a good deal of clash and analysis in these debates and generally they should be a little slower to help the comprehension. This is a valuable part of debate and I am always game for it.
Discourse/Performance/Irony Affs- These are quite tricky, I love to listen to them run well but it takes quite a bit of time to understand and explain in round. Run them if you like but I expect you to do all the requisite work on the flow to show me why I should vote your way.
  