
  Don't ask me to spread if the fastest you can go is a parent talking fast(let me tell you that you're probably just fast to yourself), and further more if you do spread make it loud and clear i will not go out of my way to listen to you case if you mumble or talk low and especially not if you gasps that a small rodent would make. I will put my pen down very loudly and look at you to hint that you should correct what you are doing wrong. I will evaluate everything in the round and i tend to flow everything in the round but if it's the same arguments that are as old as the dawn of time and your whole team is running it, then chances are i have already heard it and won't waste ink or time on the same rehashed and recycled argument. I would prefer you as a debater give me a weighing mechanism for the round. Example: we are going to do cost benefit analysis. Otherwise i will make a weighing mechanism that i see fit for the round. make sure your arguments have a claim, warrant, impact or in other words tell me the argument and why is should credit it and then tell me how much value/weight, good or bad, it has in the round. I will evaluate majority of arguments traditional or progressive the part that makes me not want to evaluate them is when they are just bad arguments or no work is done on them. Example "GDP will rise" Why? and how much? otherwise you just said some neat words in a sentence. Abusive cases are frowned upon in the round such as super critical affirmatives where they pick 1-3 words to affirm and that's it, or cases where they only need to prove one instance and nothing more. If this type of Abuse is stemming from the opponents then just in the rebuttal speech or when you get the chance address that it's abusive. More often that not i will agree with you if the case makes it a one sided debate. I don't like when evidence or arguments are dropped but i HATE it when it becomes a discussion of lies in the sense that either side says the other dropped "my whole case" i will be flowing, and since you can read this i am going to tell you IF you tell me that that the opponent dropped most or all of you case when it's clear to everyone that they addressed majority of the case, then you lose one speaker 1/2 of a speaker point every time those words are said. I enjoy voters it shows that as a debater you can concisely tell me what you think the arguments you are winning on happen to be. I Listen to CX but if you pinned them on a good question then you should bring it up in you next speech. My favorite item on the list is CLASH because remember this is debate so there should be some debate not two sides each giving speeches in favor of their side and never addressing the opponents case exists. i will be as serious as you guys make the round if it's just a fun activity with competition then that's nice but if you came here for blood then i will make sure that every ounce of sweat and effort you put into that case counts so long as you treat your opponent with dignity. That's where speaker points come in I give speaker points on how well you spoke, on the basis of how fluid you were and how persuasive you came off, but speaker points will be deducted if you come off as a condescending, smug pretentious, rude. jerk. That means if your opponents is new or not as quality as you then you will probably will win the round with good effort and don't need to be them down and pour salt in wounds or that salt is going to drown out your speaker points. (if you are being smug and are not that good of a debater i will tell you so that i can shed some light how good you think you are and how good you actually are.) Don't let this make you fearful of me as a judge i am still a human who has feelings and enjoys laughter, most of this is just guidelines for what is going through my head but if you fall under the portions of debaters that are jerks for any number of these reasons posted then i highly suggest you try and adapt to me as well as you can. I will offer some leniency most of the things said are just items that annoy except the whole lack of respect for another then i get upset and take it out on your speaker points chipping away at them as you chip away at your opponent like a jerk. Anything not addressed in this post can be asked in person before round but only specific question none of that "what are your paradigms" nonsense
  