
  For some reference, I did Policy debate on both the nat circuit and as part of CHSSA. I considered myself as more of a Case/DA debater, but I loved Kritiks and still do.

Kritiks:
If you choose to run a Kritik, I'm all ears, just make sure that you run it properly and put overviews at the top of your speech to explain it. While I am familiar with a lot of jargon, I'm def not familiar with every K. One of my biggest pet peeves is the amount of debaters that butcher some vague K that they are running solely to win. Explain why my ballot matters, what the alt looks like and why that takes precedent over the fiat world. The farther away the K is to the topic, the less leverage I'll give to it.
Theory:
I'm not a huge fan of theory, but I'm not opposed, and definitely vote on it. That being said, outline your VIs clearly and have impact calc after the 1NC.
FW:
Not too familiar with FW debate in LD. Feel free to run it tho, my thoughts on it are similar to that of theory.
K Affs:
DO NOT RUN A K AFF THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE TOPIC. Too many debaters do this and I think its stupid. The farther away from the topic you are, the more leverage I give to T and Theory arguments run by the other side.
DAs:
I'm a huge fan of case specific links, even if a link is generic, explain how the action of the aff uniquely triggers the DA or I won't consider it unless the impact is extinction. Even if you don't have a lot of evidence, I love on-the-spot intuitive reasons why the aff triggers the DA, just synthesize the context of US politics properly. Also make sure your internal link chain is good and clearly outlined, although I won't vote down unless the other team points out a flaw.
Case:
This is super important. The more arguments against case, the more leverage I will give to your Ks and DAs.
Topicality:
I definitely will vote on T if case isn't connected to the resolution. However, if you are running T, you better give me proper voting issues and tell me why the case encourages a bad culture in debate. I still like K affs that are topic specific.
Performance:
I'm fine with Performance just be sure to explain why your performance matters, how it uniquely facilitates your alt and how it makes things better. In my view, if you show me an instantiation of the alt during the debate, you get a lot more leverage for the alt, so go for it. 

I'm perfectly fine with speed and running a bunch of off case. I don't vote on RVIs unless real abuse is happening in round.
  