
  I debated for Rancho Bernardo High School and qualified to the ToC twice, with a winning record both times. Now I help coach for Brentwood High School. I will try to be as unbiased as I can in judging the round. These are my preferences, not what you need to do to win. If you’re winning on the flow, I’ll vote for you.
1) Speed: I was a pretty fast debater, but obviously, the faster you go the less I’ll be able to catch. Try to avoid your top speeds because a) I’ll miss stuff and b) you probably aren’t clear at them. I’ll call clear once or twice. If it’s because you’re going too fast for me to flow, it won’t hurt your speaks the first time (and maybe second). If it’s because you’re not being clear, it will hurt your speaks. After the second time I call it, it’s up to you to notice whether or not I’m flowing.
2) Strategy: I love strategy. In fact, one of my favorite parts of debate was writing strange ACs with unique strategies. That means I’m totally down for tricky, unconventional, and technical frameworks. In fact, these kinds of cases are much more likely to get you high speaks than any other. A caveat: don’t be an ass.  Another caveat: An extension of a 5 second argument as “a priori” is not strategy; it’s idiocy. There’s a big difference between debating strategically and not debating (engaging) at all.
3) Critical Stuff: I’m not a genius. That means the more complicated your cards get, the less I’ll understand them. So if you’re reading Deleuze and Guattari at blazing speeds, chances are, I won’t know much about what you’re talking about. That’s not to say I don’t like critical stuff; I do find it interesting. Just make sure it’s comprehensible.
4) Theory: I was known to run pretty “abusive” cases. I also debated four years without ever starting a theory debate. In other words, I think most theory is bs. There are some situations in which I’ll personally agree with you (lying in CX, misrepresenting evidence, etc. should not be done), but not a whole lot. Of course, I also believe that it’s your round and not mine, so if you’re winning the theory debate I’ll vote on it/reject the arg/whatever you tell me. But I am totally open to “fairness not a voter”, “theory is contradictory”, and “I’m not being that abusive” arguments (assuming you win them).
5) Offensiveness: Despite my position on theory, if you are being a complete ass or very offensive I might intervene. The threshold for this is ridiculously high, but if you slap your opponent or something, it’ll happen.
6) Kritiks/Narratives/Performatives: If you tell me why I should vote for it, and you win that argument, then I’ll vote for it. I have no aversion to weird stuff. However, it is vitally important that you do tell me why I should vote on it, and you explain how it interacts with other arguments. 
7) A priori: I’m not opposed to well structured, deeply developed arguments that preempt the opponent’s case. The less topical and shorter these become though, the less I’ll like them. A 15 second blip saying language is meaningless hidden as a response to the AC’s 3rd contention will leave me extremely, extremely unhappy. Speaking of which: 
8)Blips: Disgusting. Every argument should have a claim, warrant, and impact.
9) Extensions: We have a technical name for them because they are, believe it or not, important. Your extension should have the same components as your argument (although I do understand that the speeches, especially the 1AR, are shorter. So yes, you can cut down your warrant a decent amount, but at least try to keep some semblance of a warrant in the extension).
10) Attitude: I understand that rounds can be very charged and stressful. Try to avoid being mean or rude. Humor will get you much farther (especially in speaks) than a confrontational attitude will.
11) Case Organization: Numbering is a blessing. The more you number, the easier it is for me to keep track of your arguments (unless you count wrong).
12) Signposting: If you don’t, your speaks will tank and I promise you arguments will be flowed in the wrong place. Tell me where you are on the flow and what argument you are addressing.
13) Fun: Have it. Don’t take yourself too seriously and remember that debate is a game.
  