
  I currently compete as a varsity policy debater with Weber State, in my first year with the team. I have 4 years of experience debating traditional LD, progressive LD, and policy in high school. My favored arguments were/are: Baudrillard, Foucault/Agamben, Topicality/Framework, and International Relations theory. I have better than average familiarity with the Marx and Nietzsche literature bases, but will need extra articulation on in-depth anti-blackness or colonialism debates. That being said, I consider it extremely important that debaters feel freedom to be creative and comfortable with their argumentative strategies.
General Rules:
I only read evidence after the round if the quality of the evidence was mentioned in a speech as an argument.
Flashing is not prep, but if I or your opponent catch you cheating you will lose speaks and I will be hard-pressed to vote for you.
If your overview exceeds 30 seconds, tell me to get a new piece of paper. Also, probably don't have long overviews in front of me. I much prefer to see impact calculation and evidence extension on the line-by-line.
Affirmatives:
Intelligent preempts to common negative arguments are a plus. However, I am a bit chagrined when the affirmative reads tags that say "their evidence is bad" in the 1AC.
Please don't leave me guessing about the terminal impact.
Use flowable tags- paragraph-long tag lines may be strategic for you, but don't be surprised if I don't flow every nuance.
Be persuasive! A lot of people see the 1AC as a chance to info-dump and figure they will articulate in the rebuttals, but I think the 1AC is a great chance to slow down a couple times and actually communicate an argument to me. Throw in some emotion or something and I might even reward you with speaker points.
It is possible to not win any risk of solvency just as it is possible to win no risk of a link.
Topicality/Framework:
I consider the interpretation level debate to be very important. Getting lost on line-by-line debates about your topic literacy impacts doesn't help me if it doesn't resolve the strategic tension between your two interpretations. I always default to the negative interpretation absent a counter-interp.
I don't think it is necessary to generate "external offense." I am not very convinced by spill-over and advocacy arguments and would prefer a sound analysis of ground or limits questions.
As a general rule, I think fairness has a slight edge over education as a voter, but can be convinced otherwise.
Kritiks:
If it has a link, an impact, an alt, and relates to theory in some way, I can vote on it.
"Links are Disads to the perm" is not a complete argument until you describe what that disadvantage might be.
"I am winning root cause" is an interesting factoid absent an articulation of how that plays into the solvency debate.
Even if your opponent drops your alternative, you still need to extend and explain it in the rebuttals.
Be sure to establish layering for your issues- if stacked with T, do your fairness or structural violence claims come first?
Disadvantages:
I find creative and applicable disads to be the most interesting (absent my favorite k) debate arguments. I will reward them.
DA's that don't endlessly recur to extinction paranoia are also a breath of fresh air. Impact calculation is possible to win without extinction, and I have no favoritism for magnitude over probability.
If you want to put your DA's on case as turn arguments, I won't mind.
I default to negative conditionality, but excessive off-case positions and contradictory impact scenarios make me cranky.
Counter-Plans:
Read your plan text at a reasonable speed- it is hard to adjudicate perms if I can't tell what the subtle difference between the CP and the AFF is.
I prefer when the source of competition, either exclusivity or net benefit, is made clear in the 1NC.
Perms should be explained in their function- "do both" is not sufficient. I scowl at blippy perm advocacies that get expanded far beyond their initial interpretation after the negative can respond.
Even if your CP is exclusive, you should be talking about net benefits.
Theory:
I think theory can be a very strong strategic weapon for debaters, and have no inherent qualms about whether it seems "frivolous." However, I am not inclined to vote on a theory argument without a clear articulation of abuse. Potential abuse is sufficient, but please be specific about what that potential actually was.
I think theory can be divided into two camps- argument theory (like condo bad) and performance theory (like disclosure). I am much more comfortable adjudicating argument theory, and would prefer that, if possible, debaters didn't go for performance theory. My default standard of evaluation for argument theory is competing interps, but I start from a position of reasonability with performance theory.
It is very, very hard to imagine a scenario where I would drop a traditional LD debater on performance theory. If you are winning a substance argument, go for that instead of theory.
If you are prepared, respectful, and creative, what could possibly go wrong?
  