
  General Approach: If you're debating competitively, you’re working hard so I will make every effort to be very thoughtful and work hard as your judge. I strive for limited intervention. Whatever decision allows me to inject myself the least into the interpretations of issues is the one I will attempt to make. The ramifications are that a team should compare positions, evidence and tell a story in the 2NR and 2AR that puts the round together the way they want. Generally speaking, I like creative approaches and encourage them coupled with smart strategies against. Please don't read creative as "performance". Performances can be creative but so can a tricky counterplan, an innovative case or a novel critique. For me, EVERY debate round comes down to impact assessment. If you're performing, explain why your performance/project is more compelling than theirs. Somce choose to demonstrate why they're compelling which works really well in rounds you win clearly but is more difficult when the neg is responsive. Safest bet is make what you're doing understandable). If you go for T, provide reasons why your competing interpretation is better for the world of debate), if you're debating a K or a DA vs. the case, weigh some good old DAs. You will get better points and probably the win if you do this well. Too many folks just leave a mess on the flow saying in essence, "go figure it out."

The Affirmative: Do what you want in terms of critical or performance affirmatives. The evaluation will come down to framework. Set up a framework for interpretation prior to the 2AR so there is some level of predictability and discussion for the negative. An author’s name is not an argument. Please don’t confuse the two.

The Negative: Have a clever, tight strategy. Don’t whine. If you want to defend your right to a politics link or a certain interpretation, go for it. I’ll vote on T if you win it. I’ve voted before that politics protects debate and would do so again if someone won the argument. Happy to vote on theory, disadvantages and critical positions, performance or whatever other standard fare you advance. There need to be advantages to frameworks or interpretations of topics (same as with substantive arguments). Tell me where you think the locus of presumption lies. It’s unclear if it’s aff or neg at this point.

Evidence: Compare, compare, compare. Why is your evidence better than theirs? Give me your 5-10 best cards instead of the laundry list in the last two rebuttals. The on-going policy of debaters asking, “did you consider this piece of evidence?” or “how did you weigh that card?” should be considered in the light of the microscopic amount of time spent explaining or highlighting the card during the debate round. I’ll vote where you tell me to but if you have six different stories, you should put them together and not simply rely on the evidence.

Pet Peeves: 1--DON’T CURSE in your speeches is still a mantra but I have made a distinction between multimedia (films, media,music) and the debater’s own words. Folks who curse will get their points tanked. 2-Disorganized or misreferenced evidence: In the speech: “Read the Jones 99 evidence after the round!” and when I call for the evidence it becomes “Sorry, Will I meant to say Roberts, not Jones,” or “Here are those 3 pieces of Jones evidence I referenced in my speech.” Know which one card you are referring to and on which part of the flow, know your authors and don’t be sloppy. Sloppy debaters get lower points. 3-Stop stealing prep time. It’s a nasty habit. You are taking time from my life and the lives of others that I will never get back. There is enough time before rounds to go to the bathroom, get water, smoke, or indulge in whatever other habits you have.

Please remember those who are not fortunate enough to debate on weekends because of economics, family circumstances or work obligations. It is an honor and a privilege to debate in college. You are ambassadors for your school and your team. Please live up to all that entails.

Good luck and have fun.
  