
  Affiliation
Oakwood Secondary School LD Coach (2013-Present)
Granada Hills Charter High School LD Debater (2010-2013)

Updated for Stanford 2014
Frameworks, Presumption, Values:
I prefer traditional value\ value criterion frameworks, but so long as you create a means to evaluate and prioritize arguments in the round I will be happy. I will not automatically presume either side based without sufficient work put in to the debate round. (i.e. do not just extend a blippy sentence from your fw and expect that I will presume). I like to see how the framework debate interacts in the round provide lots of differentiated arguments here. 

Weighing
Weighing is the most important thing you can do in a debate round! Weighing analysis of framework, impacts, and contention level arguments writes the ballot for you.

 Explain in the round how the framework interacts, and how you either gain access through the impacts through both frameworks., Identify if any impacts are prerequisites to other impacts. Do an impact analysis of any competing impacts. Explain why extensions and drops are significant.
Theory
I am okay with theory arguments, if your opponent is being obviously abusive. Theory is only as important as you make it in the round. I don’t typically vote on RVI’s.

Kritikis, Disads, CPs, Plans
I am fine with Disads, CP’s and Plans. For plans and counterplans, please slow down for the plan text and counterplan text. However, I do not like kritiks. I think that they are a lazy debater’s excuse to never write a case again. Use a kritik at your own risk, and know that in order for me to vote for a K it must be very Compelling.

Speed
I am generally okay with speed. This sums up my position quite well:
"Spreading - if you are someone who speed reads from a computer screen while only occasionally coming up for air, please be aware that this does not impress me at all. I prefer quality argumentation to sheer volume of arguments. Spreading is a useless life skill unless you plan on being the voice reading terms and conditions at the end of a commercial - I do not teach it or encourage it, but I am capable of following it in a debate." (Davis, Bryan)

Please speak loud, and enunciate your words. If I can not understand you, I will say clear once or twice. 



Signposting and Numbering
I generally prefer to hear signposting with numbering I.e contention 1 sub-point b. If you do use an author's name (as is becoming the norm), please also tell me where on the flow this card is. You may know all of your authors and have read your opponents off of their cases, but I only have what you have read to me, and may or may not have flowed the author's name.
 
  