
  I am a second year college debater for the University of Wyoming and I love debate!
 Because I love debate, the first thing I am going to say is have fun in your debate rounds. I know how stressful they can be, but remember you do the activity because you enjoy it. Yelling at your partner or opponents during a round could reflect on your speaker points. 
  
 Case: Awesome, case debates don't happen enough.
  
 K's: I am mostly a critical debater so these are the arguments I understand the best. I don't know all criticisms though, so make sure you are explaining the warrants of your evidence and how it interacts with your opponents arguments. Even through I am particularly fond of this type of debate that doesn't mean you shouldn't be running other arguments.
  
 Counterplans/Disads: Awesome. I'm not familiar with the topic yet, so make sure to articulate a clear scenario and what that means in terms of impact comparison. 
  
 Topicality: T is a hit or a miss for me. I love thorough T arguments that are specific to a plan and that you could end up going for. Those debates were always fun for me in high school and I wish I saw them more. On the flip side of that, however, is I probably wont vote on a cheap shot when it was clear your T argument is generic. I'm also not a huge fan of aspec or any other kind of spec for that matter. If you run these arguments make sure to articulate why the abuse is specific to that affirmative and why it is a voting issue. 
  
 Framework: I find framework interesting in a lot of ways and I'm actually beginning to like framework debates more and more. The same arguments for topicality apply here though; explain and give examples of how the abuse is occurring and why that abuse is a voting issue. 
  
 I enjoy clear, topic specific debates with lots of clash. In the end, if you provide a clear link the round will come down to impact calculus. (Whether that be policy oriented risk assessment or more critical impacts). Make my job easy: explain why your impacts matter and how they are more important in comparison with the other teams impacts. I also love a good role of the ballot debate: explain how I should evaluate the round and why that works in your favor.

  