
  Hey, I am from the Austin circuit, I qualled for TFA state for LD twice.
I was a phil/plans debater but I also most familiar with theory and pre-standards.
I like listening to Ks but I am not great at evaluating the nuances within them or performance Ks. I can evaluate them but I would prefer not to listen to dense DnG, or anracha-indigenism. Again I will try to evaluate but I am not the best person for it, and if you do read it, make sure u clarify the implications of the performance in round and also what order the pre-fiat args ur reading in round come first. I.E. if you are reading fem and say that initiating discourse is a pre-fiat reason to vote u up and then read a poem as a perspective and say that introducing perspectives comes as a pre-fiat to understanding the feminist perspective which is root to all the forms of oppression. Tell me which one comes first, because if they manage to turn the link to the poem but you are still winning discourse and there isn’t any other offense, I am not sure how to resolve that dilemma without a hierarchy within the role of the ballot. Presumably the poem would come first but arguably initiating discourse is more important because it is a prerequisite for the poem being read. 
Similarly, if you are reading multiple meta-theory shells, explain which ones come first. This will reduce the overall judge intervention in muddled rounds. I want to use the least work possible. In terms of defaults, I have none in theory but if neither reasonability or competition interpretation are given, I will assume reasonability. Same goes for spirit/text of interp.
I ask that you don’t read racial/sexist arguments unless they are used in a sarcastic manner to enhance an AC as a representation of modern society. 
Also, if u have a pen or paper to share, you will always have a place in my heart. 
Theory - 8/9 Spreading - 6/7 Ks - 5-7 Pre-standards - 8 (just don’t read multi-part NIBS) Phil - 8/9 Skep - 8 Phil off - 6/7
Sketchy things that I will evaluate but you need to make explicit: Contingent standards, most p-standards, paragraph theory (most judges will but I just feel sometimes it is pretty shady), drop the debater implication on competing interp (but I will drop you if you read it and then they read a competing interp and another shell, and u don’t read a competing interp to their shell, they don’t need to explicitly make the arg but if it is implied I will extend it for them). moral pluralism - multiple fwk with multiple standards, skep is great, non-topical Ks (make it explicit why this should be a voting issue), etc. 
Ask me before round if you have any specific questions. 
Although I am chill with most arguments, run it by me if you think it is questionable. 
Speaks: I don’t have a specific system but I award speaks based on strategy and clarity. I will drop speaks from 30 based on how unclear you are. Normally I won’t drop for having a bad strategy but if I decreased speaks from clarity I will increase them if I respect the strategy. 
Please for the love of debate, weigh offense under a util framing. I don’t want to do that work and I don’t think you want me to do it either. Although I give leeway for extensions, I will not do the work for you.
  