
  I debated for The Hockaday School (in Dallas) for 4 years and graduated in 2012. I am currently a sophomore at Dartmouth College.

I debated on both the TFA and TOC circuits, but more so on the TFA/local circuit. I have judged at a grand total of 2 tournaments since graduating, which means that I do not judge often and am not familiar with the topic or its literature. 

Speed: I was never great at flowing. I suggest you not go your top speed in front of me. If I don't catch an argument and it turns out to be really important, then I will feel really bad but still not evaluate it. I will say clear once, and after that it's up to you to figure out if I'm writing down what you're saying.

Framework: As long as you establish a mechanism with which to evaluate the round, I'm fine. This can take the form of a burden, a standard, whatever, but it needs to be there. 

Theory: I rarely debated theory and even more rarely instigated it. That being said, I will still evaluate theory like any other argument and am actually happy to hear good theory debates. As a sidenote, I default to competing interpretations and drop the argument, though I am open to hearing arguments justifying other positions.

Critical Positions: I never ran these as a debater. I'm probably not the best judge to run these in front of because I get easily confused. However, if you run one and can explain it very clearly in round, then that will result in higher speaks.

Weighing/Crystallizing: Please do it. Generic weighing standards are helpful, but if you can be more nuanced, that would be greatly appreciated. Explain the implications of all of your arguments, especially the ones you extend in your last speech. Like I said, I get confused easily and will tend to side with the debater who creates a more cohesive ballot story.

Speaks: I start at 28. A 30 means that I think you could win the tournament and will probably be in late outrounds. Anything below a 26 means that you did or said something that offended me.

Feel free to ask me questions before the round!
  