
  


    
        Name

        Barbosa, Karina - Paradigm

    
    
        Email

        k_n.barbosa@yahoo.com

    
    
        Which events do you typically judge?

        Policy

    
    
        What is your competitive speech or debate experience?

        4 years of policy debate in high school

    
    
        High School

        Houston Academy for International Studies

    
    
        College

        University of North Texas

    
    
        Where have you coached?

        

    
    
        Approximately how many rounds have you judged this season?

        

    
    
        How many years have you been judging?

        

    
    
        I would prefer to listen to debates that were about these types of arguments:

         they are related to the topic, provide lots of clash, and provide impact calculus and analysis with clear reasons for voters

    
    
        I give good speaker points to debaters that:

        are clear, confident, seem to know what they're talking about (even if they don't), asks good and pointed questions, can stand their ground without being a jerk

    
    
        I would give low speaker points to a debater that:

        speaks so fast it sounds like gibberish, takes awkward pauses, doesn't speak up, can't hold their own during CX

    
    
        My favorite argument when I was debating was:

        case-specific DAs, very well explained Kritiks, and offensive turns (both on case and off case)

    
    
        I won't vote on these types of arguments:

        There are no arguments I will not vote on.

    
    
        Rate the following argument types

        Topicality: Alright
Theory: Okay
Counterplans: Awesome
Disads: Awesome
Kritiks: Awesome
Framework: Don't care
Speed/Spreading: Okay

    
    
        Explain your ratings, if you like

        

    
    
        Comments on flowing or speed:

        I'm a flow heavy judge so I will write down the arguments said but will not do the work for you. I like when arguments are extended for a reason. Speed is fine, but if I can't understand you, I will stop flowing.

    
    
        Other things a team should know about?

        

    



  