
  Eric Barden
Volunteer Judge for Westwood High School

It’s been a long time since I’ve seen a debate. I debated in high school from 1987-91, and at the University of Texas from 1992-94. We were fast, but most of the debate centered on case and disads with the occasional counter-plan (always competitive). Topicality was the extent of the procedural or jurisdictional debates. 

These were the early days of the Kritik. I was at the University of Texas when the argument gained traction on the national circuit. So, I’m familiar with the principles behind the argument. But, I have not seen the argument develop over the past twenty years. You will likely lose me with a highly technical debate. 

Most of the rounds in which I was involved were decided based on optimizing policy. The team that maximizes the common good wins, unless a thoroughly developed rationale convinces me otherwise. I’m willing to vote on anything if it’s compelling. This requires that I understand the argument and the implications of my acceptance or rejection. If you say a particular argument or principle is the most important issue in the round, and the other team fails to demonstrate otherwise, I will cast my vote based on the terms that you have defined. 

The 2AR and the 2NR need to convince me how I should evaluate the debate. Take this time to crystallize your arguments and explain to me how I should weigh them. Don’t go for everything. Focus on the positions that you’re most confident in and make them stronger. I don’t expect that I’ll want to read much evidence after the round unless it’s specifically challenged. 

Debate to me is rhetorical chess. A dropped argument is true even if it’s dumb. You need to tell me where to apply your arguments. I’ll try and keep up with your speed, but since I’m out of practice, please signpost if it looks like I’m lost. Stylistically, I will reward clarity, word economy and organization. Clash is imperative, and mindless spewing of canned briefs isn’t impressive. The team who most strategically applies their arguments will have the best chance of tipping the balance in their favor.

UT will be my first tournament this year so I have no rounds on this topic.
  