
  Quick Introduction: I debated for four years at Barrington High School and am a freshman at Auburn University (War Eagle!)

Overview: There needs to be clash, this is what makes debate fun and interesting. Please extend your arguments so I know what is important and why, you can't win off of defensive arguments. It is your job to convince me that your side is preferable or correct so keep this objective in mind and don't get too caught up on the details. Have fun!

Standards: As a judge I need some way to weigh the round and I think the standards debate is the best way to do this. However, using circular reasoning, comparing the same standards, and using superficial standards just muddles the debate. If you are running an off case or have some different way you want me to judge the round let me know and I will adjust my scope of the round, but you need to have some calculus or burden for me to use to evaluate the round.

Arguments: The reason I chose LD debate is because I love philosophy and am well versed in it, so run whatever you want! I believe it is my duty as a judge to come with an open mind, so I will do my best to consider each argument without preconceived ideas, as long as you present your argument well. However, if you choose to run skepticism, determinism, disclosure theory, nihilism, or any obscure argument I will warn you that you will have to do a great job in explaining if for me to buy it. Please keep your arguments topical. I can follow meta-ethical debates but I would prefer a debate about the resolution.

Theory: I will vote for theory if there is abuse in the round, but make sure your interpretation and standards are well explained and don't assume I have a preconceived notion as to how the round should be. If you're responding to theory treat it like any other argument in debate by weighing standards and making both offensive and defensive arguments. I will vote for RVIs if they are warranted. That being said, I would prefer there be no abuse in the first place as to not distract from the topic being debated so don't base your whole argument on shells. 

Policy Arguments: This is LD debate and I would prefer to keep it that way. However, if you are going to run disadvantages, kritiks, counterplans...etc. they must be well warranted and extended. I hold these arguments to a higher standard.

Speed: I can flow speed, but I don't particularly like it. If you are going to talk fast that's fine, just make sure you are using your speed as a tool that helps you. I don't want to have to guess what you are saying, and it's your job to make sure I can understand you. Keep in mind the point of a debate is to convince the judge of your argument, therefore if I can't understand what you are saying then it doesn't matter how many claims you have or how well supported your case is. 

Speaker Points: Be civil, confident, strategic, passionate, and persuasive and you will do well in terms of speaker points. I start at a 27.5 and go up or down from there.

If you have any questions or concerns feel free to ask me!
  