
  I debated at Wayland High School for 3 years and East Kentwood High School for 1 year (both in Michigan) during high school. I went to SDI for 2 summers and U of M 7 week seniors for one summer. I debated nationally and throughout Michigan and consider myself well versed in policy debate. I coached at East Kentwood for a few years after I graduated in 2005. I now live in Washington, DC and work in the non-profit sector.

Issues -

Topicality - Just like any other argument, you must impact it even if you win that they violate your interpretation if you want me to vote on it. This means you have to explain why its a voting issue. If your standards justify your interpretation then I will default to that interpretation unless I am propositioned with a different paradigm and why I should prefer that paradigm.

Stock Issues - I don't really believe in voting for you solely on defensive case arguments (i.e. you need to win the DA or a turn to weigh against the mitigated case), other than that, case arguments will help give weight to your other offensive positions against their case.

DA's - Nothing special here. Justify it, give me reasons why to prefer your evidence, or your arguments and then I will evaluate those arguments with the weight you assign to them. (stuff like timeframe, subsuming impacts, solving internal links, magnitude, systemic, risk, etc.)

CP's - Pretty open minded here too, just explain why it is preferable to their policy that they advocate. Textual or policy competition is fine as long as you justify it to me and defend any accusations the other team may make against your framework.

K's - Again, as long as you justify the position to me and explain why your framework is preferential, then I will evaluate the argument as such.

As you can tell, I'm pretty open minded, if you propose a paradigm or way of evaluating the round, I will listen to the reasons that you give me to justify that framework and evaluate any opposition to that framework before deciding how to evaluate the round. Ultimately I like to have the debaters tell me how to evaluate the round and how to weigh what you (think that you) win. Any questions ask before the round of course.
  