
  I debated four years at Great Bridge High School, and now I am back coaching the team. I debated all different categories of debate, and i also coach them, but I am mostly policy oriented. 



Speed: I do not mind speed, as long as you are clear. It is up to you as the debater, to make it understandable and comprehend able for me. If you can not speed, then don't. Speaking at a normal pace is not a problem and there is nothing wrong with it. Slow down for tags and cites. Flow and Speaker Points: I keep a pretty good flow, and I evaluate debates through the flow of the arguments. I hardly give anything above 29, because I have seen few perfect speeches. YES I FLOW LIKE A LAY JUDGE. but i get everything down that needs to be. Put good MPX analysis in an overview or underview in each rebuttal. It makes it easier on me as a judge to know what to do, instead of forcing me to go back to old flows. Theory: I will flow any theory in the round as long as it makes sense and you explain it. I will vote on abuse if it is evident in round. It has to actually happen. T as a timesuck is fine, as long as you drop it if you know you wont win it. I don't like it in the 2NC. its a waste of time. I will vote on aspec if you give me a reason to. I believe it is actually a legitimate argument. Critical arguments: I will buy anything, but if you are going for a k and giving me an alt, it would be nice to have a timeframe. CPs/offcase etc.: You can go for whatever you want in a round. I will flow anything as long as you tell me WHY it makes sense and why i should vote on it. You need to explain it and make it clear to me, and the other team. At the end of the round, just tell me WHY and you will be fine. I don't mind CP's as long as they have a net benefit, because otherwise, there is no point. I link good structure on a DA (link, brink, uniqueness). Solvency: My most favorite thing in a debate is solvency turn. The plan needs to be able to prove solvency claims, because otherwise there is no point. If it wont really happen, then don't run it.
  