
  Debate Experience: 4 Years of policy debate at Kent Denver. 

Judging on the 2014-2015 topic: Zero before Berkeley. 

If you hate CP/DA debate, I'm probably not the best judge for you. 

As far as preferences go, just read this, Ross is way smarter than I am: 
http://judgephilosophies.wikispaces.com/Garrett%2C+Ross

The only things I really have to add are below:

Speed: I could flow pretty much anything in high school, but it's been almost a year since i've been in a debate room. Especially during the first couple of prelims, make sure you slow down and focus on articulating, at least during your tag lines. If I can't flow you, I'll say something 2-3 times before I just give up and do my best with the rest of the speech. Your speaker points will definitely suffer if you don't adapt. 

Topicality: I loved good T debates in high school, but once again, I don't know anything about what's generally accepted by the debate community on this topic. That means you have to spend more time on explaining the violation if you pursue topicality on the negative. On both sides, talk to me as if I have no idea what common affirmatives/ disads/CPs/topic specific K's exist... because I don't. 

A general note on Theory/Topicality: I'm not going to vote for you if your 1AR on conditionality just extends every point in the 2AC with no further explanation or analysis of how that implicates the neg's response. Go in depth on a couple standards, let me know why I should prefer fairness over education or vice-versa, and explain why your counter-interpretation solves their offense. I'll vote on potential abuse, but I'll probably be more persuaded if you show me abuse in-round. Same goes for topicality on the negative. 

Oh, and I'm not the biggest fan of multiple fiat solves the link/intrinsicness type arguments against politics-- If the negative doesn't answer any of them the disad is definitely dead, but if they answer even one of them I highly doubt I'll vote for theory on politics. 

If you don't read plans: I'm probably not the judge for the job. Make sure to really explain why signing my ballot in favor of the affirmative is important and beneficial. Personally, I'm a fan of traditional debate, and this bias will be reflected if the round is at all unclear. 

Two claps for abstinence. 
  