
  Let me start with some background about myself. I used to complete on the National circuit from 2002-2006. After graduating I spent 2 years coaching for Cupertino. I also spend a little time competing in College parli and College LD( which is just 1 vs 1 policy).

I do not think an AFF or NEG has to be bound by the traditional Value and Value criteria based framework. You just need to warrant your alternative framework well. I feel any framework argument debate needs to be comparative. I feel often the Aff will simply extend framework arguments from case and ignore NC ink and vice versa. Please be clear with your framework, I do not want to have to think too much when judging.

I am fine with theory in most cases. Although don’t waste your time running theory when it’s clearly unnecessary. For example running T against the AFF when you have a case which applies and you have 40 on case arguments doesn’t make any sense. Please don’t read old policy shells, I have read many of them and majority are 1 sentence blips. If you want me to vote on theory I would like a well throughout out and well warranted argumentation. Last I do not think debate rounds are inherently educational so theory arguments which impact back to in round education are stupid in my opinion.

I do not mind Critical argumentation. Just have a well thought out and warranted case. If I do not understand something I will not vote for it, so if you’re running something particularly complex please slow down. I feel my ballot is not a tool and voting for you in my mind is not a micropolitical action.

Speed is fine with me but I still need to understand you. I might ask for things after the round if I feel I need clarification or something I should have flowed. Although I am a little rusty I haven’t judged for 3 years so my flowing is not nearly as good as it used to be. I will say clear I a cant understand you, but I will give you one warning.

I am pretty generous with speaks. A 30 to me is someone who displays good word economy, made the round simple so I do not have to think much, and made the round enjoyable.

If you have any other questions please just ask me before or after the round. I tend not to write much on the ballot and mostly give an oral RFD.
  