
  Sam Basler (Policy Coach @ West Des Moines Valley)


West Des Moines Valley class of ‘15

Gonzaga class of '19

Former 2N Now a 2A

Last Updated: Glenbrooks 2017

baslersam@gmail.com


Tl;dr – You do you, and I will vote for the team that wins.



As I judge more and more I have come to the realization that I agree with my father (Dave Basler) on a lot of things so some of this is stolen from his paradigm.



The Basics:

Speed is ok.


T, theory and Ks ok


I will take prep time for flashing but not Email . (All you have to do is push the USB button on verbatim which takes maybe 1 second)


I don't want to be on the email chain.

Be kind to your opponents, your partner and the judge.

I will not be on Facebook during c/x.



About Me:


I think this section is necessary because no judge is truly “tabula rasa” Basically everything on here is my personal views on debate and the way I look at it. This is your activity and you make the rules … so you should have the debate you want to have.


I debated for West Des Moines Valley for 5 Years and I am currently debating at Gonzaga (This is my third year). I have judged at the GDI and other local and national tournaments, so I am familiar with the topic. I have probably seen or heard whatever you could possibly imagine debated at least once.



Specific Arguments:

The Criticism (Don’t worry I put it first so you didn’t have to scroll all the way to the bottom)


Go for it! Good K debate is something that can be really enjoyable to watch and they can be really strategic if done right. You get credit for the arguments you make no more no less. Interpreting f/w debates on the K flow gets kind of tricky because a lot of times it becomes a wash with neither team really making it an offensive reason to vote for them (which is a real shame because chances are if you win framework you will win the debate). Use f/w to … I don’t know… frame the debate! If the 1AC didn’t defend their reps and you think I should vote them down tell me why I should. A well done f/w debate can totally shift the outcome of the K flow. That being said I have a high threshold for excluding all K’s from debate, as I personally believe the 1AC should be able to defend their reps/method. A K has three parts that in order for the neg to win all need to be in the 2NR. (You may have the most kickass link card to heg but that’s irrelevant in a world where you don’t win an impact.)



4 min O/V’s are not necessary and I won’t flow them … JUST DO IT ON THE LINE BY LINE.



Bring it. Some of my absolute favorite debates I have judged have been K debates. However, reading dense philosophical texts at 350 words per minute is not helpful to comprehension. As I try not to intervene as a judge, I am not going to give you the benefit of everything I know about a particular philosopher, theory argument or a particular policy option. You need to explain your arguments.



Topicality


Topicality debates can be great … if you don’t just read your pre-written blocks. I feel like 90% of topicality debates happen at top speed with the judge arbitrarily deciding whether or not the aff is topical. Read less 2 word definitions and standards and expand your arguments, and you will be surprised at the results.


Theory


Condo good/bad at high speed is also not fun for the judge. However, when I do vote on theory, in round abuse is usually why.


Personal opinions:


Condo – probably good


Dispo – probably condo


Severance/Intrinsic Perms – win why its good or bad


Process CP’s – Ehh ... the more specific the better better


PIC’s/PIK’s – YES PLEASE … if and only if they are specific to the aff



Framework


I will vote for aff’s that don’t read plan texts …. I will also vote against them on framework. I view framework debates pretty much identically with how I view T debates.



When it comes to framework, I will listen to arguments in support of any position, but if neither team wins the framework debate I will default to the question on the ballot- "I believe the better debating was done by ..." Framework against K affs is usually just a topicality argument (or what I call "topiKality"). I will vote against a K aff if you win offensive reasons as to why the aff is bad.


If I need a “new sheet for the overview” – chances are I will be angry and you will see your speaks go down … seriously do it on the line by line.


K Aff’s


You should probably talk about the topic … but how you do that Music? Poetry? Anther method? I’m all ears!


Sure. It is your community. I like the idea that you get to write the rules. Dance, sing or drum like there is nobody watching. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ItZyaOlrb7E


DA’s


The more aff specific the better. Two words really shape the DA flow … IMPACT CALCULUS. If you win the aff is worse that the status quo I will vote negative. Truth > Tech (for the most part) Spin > evidence. Turns case/da analysis should be your best friend.


Counterplans


Pretty self-explanatory ... they need a net benefit. Make sure they are competitive.


Case Debate


YES PLEASE! – Case debate is the most underutilized/underappreciated silver bullet in debate. A good case debate is far more valuable than any other argument in debate. I’d rather you read more cards on case than read 7 off.


Heg good. Heg bad. Hackers read your email, so they know how you really feel, but I am cool with whatever.


Speaking


Clarity> Speed


Funny> dry


Charisma> monotonous reading


Jokes/Puns can really help speaker points (but please make sure they are good)


Good cross-ex can improve speaker points and even end debates.


Bad cross-ex can put me to sleep.



Two of the best tips for anyone who debates:


1) Don’t double breathe


2) Slow down to go faster



SPEED. 

If you are clear, I will be able to flow you. However, though speaking quickly has become a community norm in policy debate, debate is still fundamentally about the quality of your advocacy and communication. I think it is my job as a judge to say who was winning on my flow when time expired. I don't want your speech document and if your delivery is unclear that means I will won't have your argument on my flow. This also means I will rarely call for cards unless there is a disagreement over what the card says or I don't know how else to decide the debate.


"I wanna go fast."- Ricky Bobby, Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby, 2006


PREP. 

I do not require a team to use prep time to flash their speech to the other team. Don't steal prep time while the other team is flashing you their arguments. Also, if you still need to re-order all of your papers when you get up to the podium, you are still prepping.


MEAN PEOPLE SUCK.

Even though I believe the sarcastic slow-clap to be an underutilized method of cross-ex, I expect you to be respectful and courteous to your opponents, your partner and to the judge. I can assure you that the best advocates out in the real world (whether they are trial attorneys, lobbyists, politicians, activists, writers, Comedy Central talk show hosts, etc.) understand the difference between vigorous disagreement in a debate forum and mutual respect and even admiration outside of that forum. I believe in a debate round we should all strive to disagree agreeably, and as soon as the round is over the disagreement should end.


"Gretchen, I'm sorry I laughed at you that time you got diarrhea at Barnes & Nobles." - Karen Smith, Mean Girls, 2004


TECH OR TRUTH? 

If something is totally counter-intuitive and empirically false, telling me that (you have to speak the words) is probably enough to defeat an argument. However, I also like it when people take counter-intuitive positions and explain why they are true, even if our first instinct is to reject them. But yeah...try not to drop shtuff.


WELL DONE, YOUNG PADAWAN.

I have nothing but respect for young people who choose to use their free time developing their critical thinking skills and engaging in an academic exercise like debate. It will serve you well in life, whatever you choose to do, and this is why I place such a high value on the activity. I promise you I will do my best to be fair, constructive, encouraging and engaged.


FAQs:

Q: Can I use the bathroom? Can I get a drink?


A: Yes
  