
  I debated for 4 years for The Hockaday School in Dallas, TX (class of 2012) on the local and national circuits with moderate success. I am currently a freshman at Emory University.

Here are some specific things that will improve your chances of getting my ballot:

I default to a truth-testing paradigm but am open to arguments for other paradigms if they’re justified. There are very few arguments I will reject on face, unless they are completely warrantless.

Argument content: It’s not a good idea to run dense, critical positions in front of me. I’m willing to evaluate it equal to other forms of arguments; however, I am unfamiliar with most of the literature. If you think that critical argumentation is your strong suit, then I would advise slowing down and perhaps adding in short, summarizations of warrants throughout the link chain.

Weighing: While generic weighing is helpful (e.g. magnitude, probability, time frame, etc.), it really helps if you make more specific comparisons between arguments. This is especially true when comparing arguments on different areas of the flow.

Theory: I’m receptive to theory. I default to competing interpretations if debaters don’t make paradigmatic arguments to the contrary. I don’t have anything against using theory as a strategic tool. That being said, I want well-warranted arguments with a clear abuse story and reasons why your world is better than your opponent’s. I’m willing to evaluate RVIs. Don’t run disclosure theory in front of me. I also won’t vote on fairness isn’t a voter.

Evidence: I’ll call for evidence if you winning a part of the flow depends on if something exists in the text of the card. Otherwise, I’ll only evaluate arguments that I have written down. 

Speed: I was able to flow most national circuit speeds in high school, but I’m not great at flowing and have not seen a debate round in almost a year. I’ll say “clear” or “slow down” probably 3 times before I completely stop flowing. 
Be civil to your opponent. If I believe your behavior is offensive enough (this includes anything from being unforgivably rude to being racist/homophobic/bigoted), I will not hesitate to tank your speaks or drop you.

Speaker points:
30: You should be in finals
29-29.5: You should make it to late outrounds
28.5: You should break
28: You should have a winning record
27-27.5: You debated decently but could work on making better strategic decisions
26-26.5: You debated below average and need to work on execution and strategy
25-25.5: You debated poorly
<25: You were offensive
  