
  Steffany Batik
Colleyville Heritage High School
Stuff you will ask me about before the round:
1. Is speed ok?
Yes, speed is ok given the following: a. You are saying something of substance and worth b. It is warranted by the speech and/or round c. You are clear
You will know if you do not meet these conditions because I will stop flowing and I will look angry. Now you may say to yourself, “Self, doesn't she always look angry?” True, but trust me if you make a little something called EYE CONTACT you will know when you have crossed a line. I do not like blip spread. I do not like spreads that are unnecessary and used to take advantage of younger/more inexperienced debaters. I do believe that the debater is responsible for explaining their arguments and evidence and am not one to read cards after the round (with some rare exceptions regarding a debate of the evidence itself). I don’t mind watching a quick debate, and enjoy it when it is done well, but I prefer substance always to quantity.
I have a reputation for being tough on speaker points and that is because I expect to see clear argumentation and enunciation, sign posting, and an effort to clean up the flow at the end of the round.
2. What do you vote off of?
Stuff in the round. In an ideal debate world, there is a value and criteria and you impact to them. Sometimes the way a particular round goes down there is some agreed upon external criterion that is different from either of your Values/Criteria (that was poor planning on your part) and I will vote off of how things are impacted to that. There are some resolutions which lend themselves to a lack of value (for example fact based resolutions like we saw in 05) and in those cases an alternative standard is fine if warranted by the debater.
3. How about kritiks?
I like arguments that are well thought out, warranted, and impacted. This can take different forms and I am open to that possibility. I will note two things at this point: 1. kritiks are rarely run well and 2. I will also listen to theory arguments about the kritik.
4. Will you give an oral critique?
Yes, in most circumstances. Exceptions to this would include things like time constraints. If this is the case, I am always free for questions after the round. I like the game of debate but I like the ability to educate more, so feel free to ask me questions.
5. Theory debate, “Topicality”, etc?
One of the things I like about this year’s TOC topic is that I think there are a number of different case positions on both sides that lead to some very interesting debate. With that said, I also think there are positions that are probably a little bit shady. Topicality and theory arguments are good for me as long as there can be a demonstrated abuse and I am told how to weigh the argument in the particular round.

Something you won't ask me about but should consider: In my old age I have decided that how you speak and how you interact with each other really does matter (ok, I always knew this). If you are rude to each other or me, you will see a drop in your speaker points. I am one of those people that actually believe in the educational value of this activity, who has devoted my life to teaching in a real classroom, and who just wants people to get along. Don't ruin my dream of what debate can do for people.
  