
  I don’t have any real substantive argument preferences. I do my best to let those play out in the debate as they do.
Unless topicality, a theory issue, or a kritik is involved, I attempt to determine the desirability of the plan relative to the status quo or a specific alternative. This is the “framework” that I feel most comfortable judging in.
I’m honestly somewhat skeptical of arguments that require one to move the decision-making calculus away from this framework, but I will not dismiss such alternative frameworks out of hand. I just don’t think the ones introduced to date are very good. The presumption is just honestly against those advocating the alternative framework. Note that this presumption only applies to the framework and never the argument.
Link v. Uniqueness. I don’t think that uniqueness is ever absolute and that the direction of the link *usually* has a lot bigger role to play in the debate that most people give it credit for. Certainly proposals can make things worse or better, and that increment, be it large or small, always deserves some calculus in the assessment.
Offense v. Defense. Offense helps, and it is USUALLY impossible to reduce the risk of an argument to zero. However, unlike many others, I do not think it is impossible. I’d say in 1 of every 10 debates I judge I conclude that there is no risk at all of a link, no risk of an internal link, and maybe even no solvency at all (though the latter I have only concluded that once)
Topicality. I’m old. I thing things have gone way too far in terms of “competing interpretations.” I think that in order for “competing interpretations” to be relevant that both sides need to have a reasonable interpretation that is grounded in a definition/contextual card. Basically, I think most Affs are topical unless they are unreasonable.
Theory. I think theory blocks have somewhat ruined theory debates. People can’t win theory debates because the debates are dry, stale, old and not very interesting. If you want to win a specific theory debate explain why the particular argument practice at hand significantly undermines your ability to win the debate and then convince me that I should vote against the other team for having engaged in that practice. Both of those are possible, whereas reading your great “conditionality bad” file is not.
Voting issues. I think if you do a good job explaining why a theory argument other than topicality is a voting issue that you can win that it is. HOWEVER, I will IGNORE the random “independent voting issue” consequence.
  