
  I debated 4 years at University High School in Irvine California
Strikes: University High School

Hi guys, my name is Milad

When I debated in high school, I never had a coach or debated on the national circuit. I came from a slower lay background because that was what my circuit looked like. 

Don't pref me if you rely a lot on speed or strange kritiks. Spreading your cards is cool, but do your taglines slowly and clearly. Also, don't start you're speeches at 1000 wpm. Slow down at first, then work your way up. 

I haven't debated in quite a while, but I'm not some old stock issues judges

Spread your tags clearly, and PLEASE extend warrants in the rebuttals or even in the 2NC.

I tend to default to a policy maker framework, and please do impact calc early on because I don't like to put my own biases in the round. 

DA/CP: I think this is the core of debate. I like these arguments but you must CLEARLY articulate a link story and explain why it o/w case. There is such thing as 0% risk of a link. 

T: A bit more sketchy to me, I didn't run lots of topicality, but have hit it plenty of times. I default to competing interpretations and all that good stuff.
But I find it hard to vote on T because I think most affs are reasonably topical from neg ground loss, so go for it at your own risk. 

Kritiks: Another gray area for me. I never ran the k in high school, and kritiks weren't a large part of my lay circuit. I will flow it, but there should be a really good link story to it. I really don't like 
teams that run the same kritik every debate, because I think that kills education.

Theory: Just like T, another hard win for me. It's hard to get my ballot, but I'll probably drop the arg if you win it. A lot of Theory is battle of the blocks, and that isn't really good debating. Make clear your theory standards and stuff. Please don''t spread theory off like you're spreading a card. 

Flash time isn't prep but don't abuse it. Please don't make racist, sexist, or other insulting things to people or the other team. My friends think I give too high speaks, but I think that for every 28.5 or 29 I give, it was well earned. Debate is a hard activity and I try to reward the debaters for what they go through. 

BONUS: If you are super clear in the debate and win not going at 1000 wpm, I will give higher speaker points. Have Fun!
  