
  Charles Bazzell
Whitney Young 2016
Instructor CDSI 2016
UIUC Parli 2019

I'm gonna keep this short since I know no one really reads the long philosophies. I went to the TOC so I am decently qualified but I'm by no means a great debater. Bear in mind I am a first year out so things could be rocky. In high school I debated a variety of args from policy to identity but primarily settled into pomo bs for my senior year so be warned. I'm not a hack by any means, that's just where I was last year. I'm not super involved right now because I don't debate policy anymore but I do a little bit of laid back parli and judge/coach high school fairly regularly.

TLDR:
OK for the K/K affs

People who influenced me in order:
Kevin Hirn - https://judgephilosophies.wikispaces.com/Hirn,+KevinJeron DastrupChristian Palacios - https://judgephilosophies.wikispaces.com/Palacios%2C+Christian
I sincerely have no ideological preference and I will vote for anything, cross my heart hope to die. I've gone for arguments like death good many times but have taken T or politics many times too.

Now for what everyone cares about:

The K
If you couldn't tell from my high school I definitely have a lot of experience with the k. This does not mean I don't have experience with conventional arguments or won't vote for them, just know that I went primarily for the k in my junior and senior years in particular and take what you will from it.

K affs
I also have a lot of experience with these on the receiving and delivering end. I went for a K aff primarily in my junior and senior years, but I also kept policy affs on hand for both those years. Do whatever you want to do, but know that I will probably not be swayed by performances or advocacies which are all show but no bite.

FW
I've gone for framework a few times but I've almost always been on the receiving end of this arg. I will vote for anything but I think clash primarily shapes these debates. I can be sympathetic to framework and the more outlandish the aff the more likely I am to vote for it.

Everything Else
I follow the norms of the rest of the community.
  