
  I did LD @ Horizon High School (’15) in Arizona.
Now I coach LD over the summer @ Southwest Speech and Debate Institute.
I use she/her/hers gender pronouns.

Overall, I am fine with most types of arguments/whatever you want the round to be. Most importantly, I do not think that the exclusion of your opponent is strategic. That being said, I am fine with speed/theory/kritical arguments/whatever makes you happy, but not if you are executing them in a way that it is contributing to a round where your opponent isn’t able to participate. You should be able to explain your cases/arguments to anyone.
I probably won’t be able to justify dropping you, but it will affect your speaker points and my subconscious perception of you. L

Some things to be aware of if you want:

As of January 2016, I haven’t seen/judged/participated in a debate round in about 6 months. I am totally fine with speed but I will need you to slow down for tags/authors/important parts of cards/etc. I’ll yell clear if I can’t understand you, but there will come a time when I will have to stop flowing.UPDATE 1/9/15: I've judged 16 rounds on the Jan/Feb LD topic
I have a very low theory threshold and I wouldn’t recommend running it unless it is legitimately necessary. Of course I will vote on theory if that’s what the round comes down to but I am also 100% comfortable voting off of paragraph theory. The format of how you read/respond to theory doesn’t make a difference to me. If anything, I probably prefer paragraph theory.I like in depth frameworks that think outside the box. Impacting back to your framework is really important to me.Just because your opponent drops/doesn’t adequately respond to something doesn’t mean you automatically win the round. I need really clear extensions that impact back to something (preferably your framework).A brief summary at the end of speeches explaining why you’re winning never hurt anyone and it will probably increase your speaker points/my chance of voting for you, especially if it’s a close round.

& some other stuff:
no, I don’t care if you sit or stand.flex prep is fine but only for clarification questions and only if it is cool with your opponent.please pre-flow ahead of time. <3i’ll be timing the round, but please let me know if you want time signals ahead of time because that’s cool with me.Like most decent people, I’m not going to vote off of something that’s offensive. If you’re thinking “is this argument offensive?” it probably is.
Feel free to ask more specific questions before the round. Yay debate! J
  