
  Bearden, J. Lane (Updated 4/2016)Current: Debate Coach, Calhoun (GA) High School. Diamond-key Coach NFL, Barkely Forum Key Coach.Current Non-Debate: Judge, Gordon County Juvenile Court (1990 - ); Board of Governors, Georgia State Bar Association (1992-2008); President, Council of Juvenile Court Judges (2014-15), Attorney, Bearden Law Firm (1989 - )(Civil/victim's rights cases, personal injury plaintiff's cases.) Ga Crim Def Lawyers (1985-1995)(Defense counsel in state and federal courts, 10+ murder defenses, 30+ cases on search and seizure in appellate courts.) 
Education:
University of Redlands (1981 B.A. Political Science & Philos); Univ ‘Bama (1985 Juris Doctor);

Credentials:
Debated in high school in California, and at Univ of Redlands (‘76-‘80). Worked my way up to top team as a senior, with some success: 1st Kentucky Round Robin, 1st Wake, 1st round bid NDT. In college I spent summers writing debate handbooks, and teaching at summer debate workshops Golden West (Redlands), Georgetown, Emory, Wake Forest. Assisted coaching for Calhoun, Pace, GBN, and then asst coach Samford and judged college circuit. Basically, I lived, ate and breathed debate for over 12 years. But then was out of the debate community from 1984 until 2002. I reentered when my children were in school and wanted to debate, and I have judged and coached on state and national circuits for the last 15 years. In modern times, i have coached both middle school (1st place East coast Nationals 3x, finals NJFL '14) and high school. On the national HS circuit, my teams have been in elims of Greenhill, Bronx, Lex, Barkley Forum, Ohio Valley, etc. and have qualified for TOC.
Philosophy: Debate should be fun, ethical, intense and educational.

Speed: I prefer smart over speed. Be as complex as you want, but slow down. Seriously. I flow tags and cites and if I don't get it the first time, you probably won't get me to call for the card.

K: I learned to debate in the 70s, when plans had to be topical, cplans had to be non-topical, and inherency was a voting issue. That said, I love the way debate has evolved, and the fun and innovation that comes with linked, clashing, K debate, and have written a variety of Ks, including Affs that were satire, and non-plan Affs.

Theory: I will vote on theory, but don't just give a three word blurb on theory and then hope to go for it in the last rebuts. I generally find that I am persuaded by how abusive a team has been in that round, as opposed to the theory in general. Six off and four conditional arguments? Go for theory bad. See "Theory as a Voting Issue" W. Ulrich and J. Bearden, Debate Issues, Spring 1982. Framework is theory, but I also believe that I contract with the tournament to do certain things, outlined on the ballot: Vote for one team, Affirm or Negate the resolution, etc. Be aware: This means I may not accept your quirky "role of the ballot" stuff.

Other: 1) Be nice - I am in the activity because I enjoy it. Be nice to your partner, your opponents, and your judge. Respect others. 2) Rep means nothing to me. 3) Don't try to unduly influence me before, during or after a decision (Coaches - don't try to influence me either).(Note: I am a judge by profession - most of the time my job is to deal with badly abused children, or to decide whether to lock kids up for committing crimes - so I have to deal with attempts at influence/pressure on a daily basis at levels much more significant than debate is capable of.) 4) My judges' critique is my opportunity to explain my RFD, not to argue with me.
  