
  

I used to debate for Southlake Carroll High School and was coached my Eric Melin so i hold many of the same perceptions of LD as he does...

Delivery: In terms of delivery I am ok with speed for the most part. If you are only going fast to throw off your opponent, your speaks will definitely suffer a few points, but I will still not hold it against you in your argumentation. I will yell clear if you are not comprehensible or are going too fast for me.

Prestandard: I will evaluate prestandard arguments like burdens, theory, etc. but I hold these arguments to a higher standard of quality because they generally mandate that I disregard all other arguments in the debate. I am very familiar with theory but require it to be used effectively using a structure that gives me the argument, the violation (if applicable), a standard to evaluate this argument under, and a reason why I should vote on this argument. If any of these are missing again your speaks will suffer a few points loss and I will not vote on the argument.

Other Weighing Mechanisms: I default to a criterion or standard to evaluate the round. Regardless of what kind of argument you are making please set up a standard that allows me to know what you have to do to win the round and what your opponent has to do to win the round. Give me a criterion, a reason why such standard is the best standard to evaluate the round, then give me an argument proving you meet/better provide for this standard.

Style: I don’t really care about whether you sit down or stand up or read off of a laptop or whatever. Formaility and physical presentation are not of great concern to me. I will give speaker points based on the quality of argumentation, the execution of strategy, and respect for your opponent. I appreciate competitiveness and aggressiveness but being just mean and disrespectful to your opponent is just absurd since debate is supposed to be fun for everyone. If you have any other questions just ask before the round I don’t mind answering whatever questions you may have.
  