
  Note for Creekview 12/3/16:
I haven't judged CX yet on this year's topic, so the acronyms and T will need a little explaining. 



If you have non-stock cases that you want to run, this is a chance to run them.

About Me: 
-LD @ Marcus HS
-Policy @ UT-Dallas
-Assistant Coach @ Marcus HS

Policy arguments: If you have them and want to run them, please do! I would very much like to see a solid K/CP/DA/plan debate any round, any time. As with anything, make sure the technical aspect is done well - K's should have an explicit link that gets extended, etc. Just a heads up - I'm most familiar with cap, fear of death, and security kritiks.

Speed: I can flow fast speeds (8-9 on a scale), but obviously I'll catch more and understand more if you're clear while spreading. I'll say "clear"/"slow" twice before I stop attempting to flow. If I put my pen down and look up, or I'm looking confused, please slow down!! Use inflection or a pause after tags/author names so I know where the tag ends and where the card starts.

Theory: I like theory debates - I think theory can be used as part of a strategy rather than just as a mechanism for checking abuse. However, this leniency comes with a caveat; I have a very low threshold for RVI's (i.e. they're easier to justify) and I-meet arguments, so starting theory and then throwing it away will be harder provided your opponent makes the RVI/I-meet arguments (if they don't, no problem). While reading your shell, please slow down for the interpretation and use numbering/lettering to distinguish between parts of the shell!

Speaks: I start at a 27 and go up (usually) or down depending on your strategy, clarity, selection of issues, signposting, etc. I normally don't have a problem with "morally questionable" arguments such as extinction good or oppression good, because I think there's a difference between the advocacies debaters have or justify in-round and the ones they actually support. However, this will change if one debater wins that such positions should be rejected (micropol, etc).

General Preferences: I need a framework for evaluating the round but it doesn't have to be a traditional value-criterion setup. You're not required to read an opposing framework (as the neg) as long as your offense links somewhere. I have no problem with severing out of cases (I think it should be done in the 1AR though). NIBs/prestandards are both fine, but both should be clearly labeled or I might not catch it. If you're going to run a laundry list of spikes please number them. My tolerance of just about any argument (e.g. extinction, NIBS, AFC) can be changed through theory.

Kritiks and Micropol: For kritiks, see Policy Arguments at the top. I don't have much experience with micropol, so run with caution. It should have an explicit role of the ballot argument (or link to the resolution).

Extensions and Signposting: Extensions should be clear, and should include the warrant of the card (you don't have to reread that part of the card, just refresh it). I not a fan of "shadow extending," or extending arguments by just talking about them in round - please say "extend"!! Signposting is vital - I'll probably shuffle my flows a lot if I'm lost.

Plans in LD: Please run them. As a paradigmatic issue, I think that if the aff runs a plan, the plan can become the resolution for the purpose of evaluating stuff like links to disads/K's. For example, if the aff specs to the US for their plan, disads that apply to another country taking the action of the resolution don't link (if the aff makes this argument).

Feel free to ask questions!
-Daniel
  