
  I used to debate for Iowa City West High School. I was an LD debater for 4 years, coached by Cyndy Woodhouse. In general, I'm what most people would call a radically 'traditional' judge.

Speed:
I hate speed. I believe in a firm distinction between policy debate and LD debate, and speed is one of those things that should stay in policy. If you speed read/spread in front of me. Additionaly, I have an eye disorder which doesn't allow me to move my eyes left-to-right, which makes it generally harder for me to flow. Both of these factors combined, I will not tolerate speed.

Theory:
I don't believe in theory shells, but there are certain times in which theory arguments themselves are acceptable. Please only use them in front of me if you absolutely have to (your opponent makes a blatantly abusive argument, for example.)

Value/Criterion:
You joined LD debate, you didn't join policy debate. In LD debate you need to do 2 things to win: your arguments need to be cleanly extended with impacts that link back to the standards, and your value needs to be the one I look to in the round. Standards debate is extremely important to me.

K's/Off-Cases/etc.:
Nothing is a priori. There is no way to win outside of the standards. Please don't read pre-standard arguments in front of me, I will not vote on them. Debate the resolution!

Technology:
As long as you can remain persuasive and not disregard any of the afformentioned rules, then you may certainly use a laptop. However, 99.9% of the debates I've ever seen where someone uses a laptop means that they are violating some part of my paradigm. I do not think a laptop is neccesary.

Cross-Examination:
This is your questioning time. I will not allow you to ask questions during prep time. You can ask for your opponent's case if it is neccesary (if they spread) during prep time, otherwise no.

Voting Issues:
Please give me them. I hate having to search through the flow to see where I vote in the end, because it leads to me making bridges that weren't made in the actual debate, which isn't exactly fair to the debaters. Please give me voting issues.

Arguing with the Judge:
This is a big thing for me. Don't argue with me. Don't argue with any judge. We, as judges, get to make the decisions, and no matter how much you don't like it the decisions are final. If you argue with me I will decimate your speaker points. If you have any constructive comments or questions, feel absolutely free to speak. I tend to always give oral critiques.

If you have any further questions, please ask before the round begins. Thanks!
  