
  I debated LD for 4 years at Fort Lauderdale High School on both the national and local level.

Debate like you are suppose to. Im not going to elaborate about how standards work and offense works and the importance of impacting your arguments, on my wiki because thats literally what you should be doing and if you are not then you should reevaluate your life. Im not mean, I swear. I also like to laugh so shout out to you if you make me laugh, maybe ill give you better speaker points ;).

Philosophy/Frameworks

I don't believe arguing about dense philosophies is educational or productive in a 45 minute debate round. As a college student I discovered that many philosophical warrants and frameworks we used were mis-cut and misrepresented anyways so there is not point in arguing about 2 wrong things. Dense complicated frameworks that include difficult philosophical ideas used to confuse your opponent is simply bad debate. As a former debater I understand what LD is evolving too, so I want vote you down simply because you chose to run a dense philosophy. Well structured frameworks are critical to good debate so I enjoy framework debate to an extent. I don't really understand a priori arguments sometimes, so you have to make it very clearly what they are and why I should vote off of them in any particular case.

Theory

If you truly believe that theres a violation in fairness or what not I believe in theory. If your doing it simply because your confused, I feel you but you're lame. I personally don't understand things like meta-theory so don't do it. Make the violations clear and explain to me how your impact functions as offense or defense.

K's/Counterplans/DA's

I don't like K's but if thats all you have when you are reading this then I guess you can run one. Counterplan's are productive on some topics more than others but if you choose to run one make it clear how it functions in the round. DA's are so strategic. I love them.

Speed

I haven't sat in on a debate round in a year so my listening skills are a little rusty. If the only thing I hear when you are spreading is 'and' and 'so' thats what I'm going to flow. Id say on a scale from 1-10 I'm comfortable with speed at a 6 or 7. If you speed just to stress you're opponent out and your speech is significantly shorter then what it would've been if you'd just read like a normal human, you're a loser and ill be very annoyed. If you are spreading but you really are not, and your just breathing more often I will laugh at you. If you are good spreader and you just dump a bunch of terminal offense and defense on your opponents case ill be a happy person.
  