
  
I'm Affiliated with College Prep at the moment and attended Grapevine High School.
This year I have only judged during 2 summer camp tournaments, practice debates, and one UDL tournament totalling approximately 15 rounds.

Speed: I debated nationally in high school, so you can go fast BUT you must must must be clear. Debate is about communication and persuasive-ness so I will try as hard as I can but if something does not get down on my flow, you should consider how to communicate better. One tip I can give you right off the bat: DO NOT SOUND LIKE A ROBOT OR A MOSQUITO! I will honestly get distracted by your voice and listen to its idiosyncrasy rather than its content.  Act like you care about your arguments, make me enjoy listening to you and your speaker points will be extremely happy.

Personal Preference: In highschool I most enjoyed going for "Kritiks" like Global Local, Militarism, Development, Terror Talk, Environmental Security, and other Threat Construction arguments, or Topicality on the Neg, and "soft-core?" advantages on the Aff. 
Though I do enjoy listening and learning about those kinds of arguments, feel free to run what you feel you are the best at and most comfortable with, because at the end of the day it is all about how you run it, not how i would have run it. 

Topicality: Topicality for me is all about the impacts of either side's interpretation and how the relate to eachother. Reasonability, to me, is just a paradigm for me to look at the T debate through, if provided. Thus, I think if the Aff wants to go for it in the 2ar that it must be linked to some kind of counter-interpretation or to the Neg's interpretation (if it is so bad that the Aff reasonably fits under it). Then the Aff would still need to defend why using the Reasonability paradigm and why the counter-interpretation is preferable to the Neg's interpretation of Topicality that you do or no not meet.

The Critique: I'm down to hear them, but you must must must explain them, and not leave it up to the evidence to explain for you.

Performance: I'm down to hear it if you are down to defend it.

Counterplan theory: I'm wiling to vote for/against whatever counterplan, but it depends on how well each debater handles the theory debate, and impacts and compares their theory arguments.

I just woke up, and that was probably confusing so feel free to ask my questions if/when I judge you.
  