
  Me – I debated for both Cate Palczweski and Jacob Thompson. I was the ADoD at UNLV from 2010-2013. I was at Damien High School from 2013-2015. I now work with KU and CPS.

Cross-ex is rarely damning on any question. Stop saying that. if the person you are speaking over in cross-ex is your own partner who is also trying to answer the question, you may have a problem. a hilarious problem.

for the love of god can we stop having these moments in cross ex where we say "obviously debate doesnt leave this room when we say the government should do something" in a condescending tone. you sound ridiculous. no one thinks that. literally no one. this is like... the royalty of a straw-person argument.

I like solvency advocates that say what your plan says, impact calculus, people that are having fun, and milkshakes. I flow. I vote on dropped arguments that I dont believe.

I increasingly find myself protecting negative teams because the 2AR explanation seems too new. So for all of you shady 2ARs out there, you need to hide your newness better. Or, you know, communicate with your partner so that they can help set up your argument(s).

I dislike debaters who try to spoil the fun of the game for others. This may surprise you, but you are still in school and not working on your fourth Nobel Prize. If this activity makes you angry, go do something else. I do not understand why someone would choose to travel across the country just to yell at someone they do not know in 3 minute intervals.

Debate is a world of enthymemes where there is a lot of presumption on the part of community in relation to the meaning of the text that you choose to speak. It would be a mistake to not fully explain an argument because you think I "get it." Sometimes that may be the case, but that is by no means a universal truth. Play your game, but make sure I understand what game we are playing at the conclusion of the debate. E.g. If you thought an evidence comparison should have gone differently than my RFD, it is probably your fault. Debate is a communicative activity, so identifying how I should evaluate your evidence / their evidence is... important.

I think debate is a game. This probably makes me evaluate debate differently. I will listen to anything I guess. If you think an argument is stupid, I would assume that you can easily defeat said argument. These are my thoughts, but keep in mind I will not just insert these things into the debate. That is your job. I have front loaded the philosophy with the things that you are most likely here to read. Without further ado:

Clipping - in many respects I think that prompts for clarity are interventionist. However, clipping is rampant, particularly during the 1AC. if I think that you are clipping, I will say clear. If it becomes a problem, I will prompt you with something to the effect of "read all of the highlighting." If I think that you are still clipping after this prompt, I will vote against you.

Buzzwords – stop it. If you cannot explain the argument, then that dog wont hunt. Also, I would really appreciate it if people would stop saying sure prior to answering questions. 

Critiques – An Aff will probably lose if they read generic answers and: don’t apply them to the criticism and don’t apply them to the affirmative. The more topic specific the K the better. Framework cards should be in the context of the resolution. I always approach these as metatheoretical discussions, which means if you win your framing arguments then you will probably win the debate. This means framework is generally not a voting issue on its own because its really just an impact calculus. I will default policy unless told otherwise. I dig the impact turn (imperialism good, Fox News) but also understand that these are probably more links to the critique. I find that lots of high end theory does not make sense when it is reduced to a blurb in the debate. You are the equivalent of Google Translate when you go for these arguments. If you don't get the reference. I am saying that Google Translate sucks. 

"non-plan affs" – That word probably bastardizes your argument but I don't have a great alternate label that people can find in a quick search through judge philosophies. These are my predispositions. If you can address them, I'm all yours (but even if you don't, you should not worry. It seems to impact the debate less and less because you are answering generic blocks with specific arguments about your method.): 
First, "role of the ballot" is over-used and rarely explained as a concept. Please do not assume that you will win just because you said it. Second, my understanding of the "policy debate good" literature means if I don't understand by your last speech, I will vote on a coherent framework argument. This is becoming less and less true because people are so afraid to say limits that they just say "you killed my decision-making" and decide thats sufficient for an impact. Third, these types of arguments typically mean the other team is forced to defend the community practices and not their own. At times I think this is a straw person argument, but I have become increasingly aware that this is not as artificial as I used to think. Fourth, teams tend to hilariously mishandle form arguments and generally lack a coherent strategy on the neg when answering these affs. Most of the time, every argument is a different way to say "you gotta have a plan." Even if the arguments sound distinct in the 1NC, they usually aren't by the 2NR. Rather than focusing on what you have prewritten, you should exploit these problems in the neg strategy. I end up voting for critical teams quite a bit because of this strategic problem eventhough i firmly believe in the pedagogical value of affirmatives being germane to the resolution. 

Framework - "a discussion of the topic rather than a topical discussion" is not a good counter-interpretation. the limits disad is real. I think a TVA that you have a card for is a devastating arg. other than that, it is either a topicality argument or a methodology argument. Your framework evidence should be about the topic on both sides. The argument is rarely as complicated as teams seem to make it. Most of the time it seems to come down to inductive vs deductive means of evaluating debate. In order to make it a voting issue, you must be able to the three components of a framework debate in some capacity or win that the one you do outweighs / controls the other: a) education b) fairness c) politics. It is easiest to win this argument when it is coupled with case defense in order to mitigate the risk of their offense against your standards.

Topicality – T is not genocidal unless the argument is dropped. I evaluate it like a disad so you should impact out arguments beyond words like "fairness" or "education". What is the argument you lose and why is it important? How does it affect aff / neg ground? You should counter-define words within your opponents' definition to mess with them and their construction of truthiness.

Theory – You should go for theory because teams dont know how to answer it. for conditionality, all i have to say is its hard to be negative. My threshold for theory other than conditionality is somewhat high as a reason to reject the team. If the 2NR is 30 seconds or less on conditionality, your 2AR better be conditionality is bad.

Disads - do people even read judge philosophies for this anymore? Impact framing in these debates is cool too. Don't bury me in cards. You may not like the outcome. Explanation of 1 really good card is better than 5 bad cards. The politics disad is a thing. 

Counterplans should have solvency advocates and should exploit generic link chains in aff advantages. The idea that a counterplan needs a card specific to the aff is not a deal breaker. Affs should probably read CP texts... they often times fiat out of your solvency deficits.

Case Debate - These should be a thing. Ideally, there should be more than just generic impact defense. Otherwise, you will probably lose to specificity. People should impact turn.... everything.
  