
  

Top Level:
Do what you do best. Please do not try and change your debating to try and win my ballot-- chances are it won't help you out and you'll have less fun. I will listen to any argument and have experience running the gamut of them.My default position is as a policymaker and that debate is a game (a very challenging one, often with legitimate real-world applications, but a game nonetheless). That said--if you want me to evaluate the round in any other way, be clear about what my role as a judge is and present a justification for that interpretation, and I will be happy to do soSpecifics:
Framework:
There is a way to run framework against non-traditional affs that involves engaging with the affirmative. If you want to run framework, you should do this.I am often very compelled by a topical version of the aff.Fairness is probably not an impact by itself.Non-traditional affs:
Go for itI don't think non-traditional aff necessarily need to be "topical," but I do think that the resolution ought to play a central role in your decision to run this affirmative.Disad/Counterplans:
Go for itSpecificity is always preferable to generics and will probably be rewardedI am willing to no-link a disadI am very compelled by a good overview in the block and the 2nr on the disad, including a thorough turns case analysis. It would behoove the affirmative to answer this thoroughly as well.Condo is fine and probably good. 3 CP's and a K are probably not. Cheater counterplans are probably cheating-- don't be afraid to take on this debate as the affirmative. I will vote on theory, but if there are other args you're winning, you should go for them instead.Kritiks:
Go for itSpecificity is preferable to generics and will probably be rewardedWhile I may be familiar with your literature base, I will still hold you to a high threshold for explanation. I've seen a lot of k debates devolve into a battle of buzzwords with warranted analysis getting lost in the midst of it (to be fair, this is also true of a lot of policy debates). I will probably reward your ability to explain your own argument.Other stuff:
Be kind. Be conscious of the person you're speaking to and how your tone/language choices/body language could be coming off.You are an intelligent and competent human being. Don't be afraid to use your brain and make some common-sense answers to arguments. I think a lot of what we say in debate is silly and could be taken down by a few good attacks, even without cards. Trust yourself to make smart arguments.Do not clip cards.Have fun! I love this activity and will put in as much effort judging your round as you did preparing for it. 
 
 
  