
  I debated Classic debate for three years in high school and I’m currently in my 2nd year at Loyola University debating Parli. Parli uses a lot of the same arguments as Policy, but it’s not as fast and we have a different resolution every topic. I have never debated policy, and I have only judged a few policy tournaments at varsity level.

This means that 1) I need you to go a little slower than usual if you want me to flow your arguments and 2) I do not have in depth knowledge of the resolution so I won’t fill in the blanks on your arguments.

I will vote on T before anything else if the negative is winning T. If it’s a valid topicality issue and not something that is clearly being used as a strat/time skew the negative doesn’t have to be winning it by a landslide. However if your topicality arguments are clearly just to skew the affirmative’s strategy and they have decent answers, don’t expect to win on T.

Kritikal and theory arguments are fine with me just make sure you explain them well. I have very little experience with performance debates and kritikal affs, but I am open to them. I haven’t read any of the literature so don’t assume that I know what you’re talking about. If you’re going to run these arguments slow down and make sure the warrants are clear. Also, you need to prove abuse within the round, I will not vote on potential abuse unless your opponent drops the argument completely. I will usually reject the argument and not the team unless there are clear and well supported arguments made about why I should do otherwise. That being said, I will listen to any argument and I will vote for whichever team supports their points best. If you’re going to run a K please make sure you have strong link arguments which actually engage the plan.

I don’t time flashing but please don’t steal prep. Tag team cross-x is fine with me.
Please be respectful of your opponents. Debate is more fun when people aren’t rude to each other.
If you have any questions feel free to ask me in round.
  