
  Hey-

My judging philosophy is pretty open to just about everything. My paradigm can, in general, be summed up as "it is your round, not mine". Most of what is below will refer to policy. When it comes to LD - same principles apply.

Types of Arguments

I disliked it when judges told me what I could or could not run so I try to give as much freedom to you as possible.

So long as you tell me why it matters - I don't care what type of argument you run. I will vote on everything from Ts to Ks and anything in between. However, I really need to see impact calculus. If you, for example, claim your opponents are being hypocrites and you are 100% right but don't provide the reasons to vote for you (for example: on T limits/voters/abuse, on K - broken link, contradiction with another argument which causes the alt to fail), I will flow it across but without any offense it doesn't really matter to my decision. I am totally chill with performance/non traditional Affs.

Overall - I am good with any and all creativity including non traditional arguments/theory/etc...hope you like the sounds of that. So long as you provide the substantiation to your arguments, you will do fine. I do my best to come into round without any preconceptions about theory, status quo, or philosophy. So, even if I know what philosophy you are referencing, I won't intervene and fill in the gaps. You will have to explain the link and impact calc/alt. I vote on the framework/voters you provide in round- not what my opinions are when it comes to policy debate. Same goes for DAs, CPs, and case.

Speed

Don't care. Personally, if you aren't intelligible I don't like yelling clear because at that point I am influencing the debate round. Slowing down for tags might be smart but I have a relatively good tolerance for speed.

Miscellaneous

When it comes to speaker points, I am probably more generous than others. Sometimes judges get upset if you are rude to other competitors but I remember being in debate and how passionate I got so I tend to not penalize for that. If anything, I think debaters should be aggressive.

At this point, I hope you can tell I am pretty laid back. If you have any questions - my email is robbykbb0826@utexas.edu or you can ask before the round starts.
  