
  Hello, my name is Loubna Bennis and I'm a parent judge.

Speed
Please, please, please under any circumstances DO NOT SPREAD. Please don't speak fast if you can resist it. I don't "flow" or take proper notes really. I take mom notes where I write the taglines and maybe a few details to each contention that I think is important. So, if you want me to have that down on my paper, please speak slow and clear so I can write it down. If I can't hear it clearly, then I won't write it down and I make my decision based on what I have left on my paper. Long story short, don't speak fast, speak as slowly and clearly as possible.

Style
I advise you to stay in the traditional realm. I understand there are more technical arguments, but I do not understand them. So, please don't run them in front of me. I do not understand them, so I won't consider them in my decision. If you insist that "it's simple enough to understand" then run at your own risk. I'm good at following simple value-value criterion and contentions one by one. I advise that your case is traditionally organized as well because it's easiest for me to follow that way. Please be mindful of the judge you have when you run certain arguments.

Speaker Points
Like I mentioned previously, speed is a deal-breaker. To get high speaks from me, speak slow and clearly articulate your thoughts. I'm usually pretty nice with speaker points, however, I will deduct speaks for inappropriate or aggressive behavior. It's a friendly environment, let's keep it that way. If your rude or obnoxious in any way, I will dock your speaks. Don't ask me to disclose speaker points.

Tips to win my ballot
Speak clearly and slowly
Stay traditional, no technical arguments please
Talk me through your links, warrants, and impacts, explain them well, convince me
Crystalize the arguments in round, WEIGH the arguments, which is better and why
I try to not intervene, so please do the weighing for me, if you don't weigh, I'll have to determine what's important at the end of the round, you may not agree with me
Voters at the end always help, tell me what to vote on and why
Make sure you tell me why you win the round, simply saying "I win this argument" or "I win the round" is not going to cut it
  