
  Josh Bentley
Juan Diego Catholic
Asst Policy Coach
11 years policy experience


I debated policy all through high school, and I debated policy for the University of South Carolina, Weber State, and Missouri State. I have judged and coached high school debate for 8 years.

Here are some of my preferences:

Affirmative
I prefer teams to attempt to be topical. Along these lines I like aff’s that are more policy based or at least make some attempt to defend USfg action. I am not completely opposed to performance but it needs to be articulated and impacted well.

Negative

Topicality- I prefer Topicality debates to be quantified in ground even if it is a competing interpretations debate.
It is important to check ground and to set up the negative strategy. If I am going to vote on a topicality argument I think it needs to be a clean debate on the negative side. I prefer to vote on T when the case really is untopical and not so much when a team knows they can just technically beat a team on the T argument and that is their 2nr strat every round.

Kritiks- The Kritik should have some form of alternative. I enjoy a good kritik debate that explains how the kritik interacts with the affirmative.

Disads- I am a big politics hack, I prefer disadvantages to be ran with a counter plan or attacking all of case.

Counter plans- Counter plans are generally good for debate, I lean toward the negative on dispositionality and PIC's theory. I feel good counter plan/ net benefit debate is the easiest way for negative to win my ballot.

In general I vote for the team that gives the better impact analysis. I like to hear the phrase “even if you don’t think we are winning this, then you still vote for us because…” I really try to do the least amount of intervention possible. I try to not call for too many cards after the round, if I do call for cards I don’t try to make arguments that were not in the debate round.

Speaker Points- I don't give low points wins ever. Even if the losing team speaks better that will usually just mean I give the winning team higher speaks than I would have given. 

27 Average, young team makes mistakes, or super rusty . 
27.5 Average, makes some good arguments
28 Good, good enough to break.
28.5 Good, no doubt will break
29 Excellent- I probably think you are one of the best debaters at the tournament
29.5 Awesome- Potential winner of the TOC
30- Near Perfect 

Paperless Debate- I coach a squad doing it for the first time this year. I am not going to time the transfer of evidence as prep. I would prefer that when someone says stop prep that they are pulling the flash drive out of their computer at that time.

TOC LD spiel.
I have very little LD experience as far as debating or judging. I have watched enough rounds to generally get the differences. I judged frequently on the national circuit in policy this year (60 rounds). Policy is my background and if I am given no other framework to evaluate the debate round on then I will default to a policy framework.
I have extensive knowledge on this current topic because I debated on the college level and have worked much with my debaters on this topic.
I will vote on theory if debated well.
RVI's are nearly a waste time to run in front of me. The only way I would consider voting on one is if it was completely dropped and made some shred of sense, which I generally don't feel RVI's make any sense.
  