
  Tl;dr
1) I’m fine with any type of argument
2) Explain complex arguments (I don’t want to misinterpret anything)
3) I probably can’t flow faster than ~80% of your top speed
 -I’ll let you read random stuff before the round to calibrate speed
4) If you run disclosure theory, I’ll check to see that you meet your shell (e.g. if the neg runs disclosure and doesn’t have anything disclosed under their aff page)
5) Don’t be really offensive or mean
6) Conflicts with Gilmour SW and Upper Arlington HW

 
 
I debated for Gilmour Academy in Ohio and graduated in 2015. I have judging conflicts with Gilmour Academy and Upper Arlington. 
 
If there’s something on here that’s unclear or uncovered, please ask me before the round. I really love debate and enjoy judging, so I want to do everything I can for you to have the best round possible. You’ll notice there’s nothing on here excluding certain types of arguments, that’s intentional. I don’t think I can confidently say any type of argument is inherently bad for debate, so you can run anything you want so long as you can sufficiently explain and defend your position.
 
 
Important note:
When running Ks, dense philosophy, or high-level theory, explain things a bit more than you otherwise would. I don’t feel comfortable voting on something I don’t understand at a rudimentary level.
This means:
1) If you use an esoteric term, define it or make its meaning self-evident.
2) After something dense/long/complex, try to add like a sentence just explaining it (e.g. “This means ...” or “In other words...”). This doesn’t need to be long, just make sure I can understand the gist of what you’re saying without doing a close reading of the card. 
3) If you’re using a nontraditional framework/ROB, please be especially clear how I’m supposed to determine who gets the win. I have no presumption against these arguments- I want to avoid making a decision based on an incorrect interpretation of what you said.
 
 
Speed:
1) Be ready to slow down if I need you to. I’ll call slow and clear. I won’t penalize speaks until the 5th time.
2) Please go slow (like conversational speed) on tags and author names so I get them down. Over-annunciate author names.
3) This is weird, but if you or your opponent want to just read random stuff to me before the round so you can calibrate your speed, then I’m totally cool with that. I want to offset the unfairness of a) one debater having had me before b) the aff having to make cuts on the fly because my speed threshold was unclear.
 
 
Things I don’t like:
1) Disclosure theory if your stuff isn’t disclosed
2) Any action that makes debate a hostile environment. 
a) Avoid plainly offensive rhetoric (e.g. using the word retarded as a synonym for bad). Stuff that’s just obviously really bad will probably result in a loss.
b) If you’re clearly better than your opponent, don’t club a baby seal. You should still run your best arguments, just don’t be mean or go full speed.
3) Clear violations of evidence ethics. I’ll leave things like brackets to the theory debate, but if you blatantly miscut/alter a card that may result in a loss. 
  