
  Name: Anthony Berryhill
Conflicts: Isidore Newman, none others

Background:
20 years involvement in LD (4 as an LDer for Isidore Newman, 12 as a coach (starting MSJ and Harker circuit squads, 4 in other capacities).Summer camp experience: Head of HR and Senior Instructor for VBI (2015-2017), Previous: NDF, Stanford, Berkeley, NSD, Yale Ivy Scholars and many others I don't recallFormer Ph.D. Candidate @ Yale (ABD, MPhil, MA) in contemporary political theory, MBA, BA from Stanford in poli sci/theory, ethics and psychologyCurrently working in the financial research space, with a focus on Learning & Development and Diversity/Inclusion work in HR.
Preferences:
If you have specific questions, just ask before the round. Some thoughts are below in case you are interested. Read the delivery part!!!!!

Key points:
DELIVERY--REALLY IMPORTANT!SLOW DOWN (to about 50% of typical circuit LD speed, fast conversational is about where I can flow).I cannot flow most circuit LDers' speed or style---most rounds are delivered horribly with a comically bad interpretation of JV style.That said ALL DEBATERS must:SLOW DOWN AND PAUSE ON TAGS AND AUTHOR NAMES - THIS IS NOT OPTIONAL. If you run through all of your speech at full, 400 wpm unclear monotone, I won't be able to flow and may fall asleepIn other words, deliver your speech so it can be flowable on the first pass. I use vocal emphasis and pausing to know what to write down/what's important -- what I can't flow, I won't vote on. This may mean reading less in your AC/NSPEAK LOUDLY ENOUGH TO BE HEARD, START AT A SLOW SPEED and slowly ramp up your speed. TCONTENTARGUMENT BOUNDARIES:I am agnostic about political philosophies, literatures, etc. that you use. i.e. RVIs, performance, critiques, critiques of theory, identity arguments are not only OK but welcomed -- go for whatever but justify whatever you do!Exceptions:I will discount arguments of low quality, are poorly explained, have bad evidence or lack depth (and I prioritize arguments which are the opposite)I refuse to vote on skepticism or anything discriminatory (and note: I'm especially open to critiques, turns, etc. that point when this happens and impact it).Note: I am a published intersectionalist, so arguments about marginalization, vulnerability, etc. are taken seriously. I do not "hack" for these arguments and will hold them to the same argumentative and technical standards as other position.Theory is held to a HIGHER standard of quality if you are going for 'drop the debater' or assert it outweighs substance.To win a theory debate in front of me, you'll need to win it on reasonability, proof of abuse...and must explain the argument in simple english (not the wanna-be policy babble in theory blocks in LD).I prefer/especially like:Any argument which is well warranted/explained, consistent with research/literature, contains solid evidence and are intelligent (warning: I wouldn't powertag in front of me...)Careful, well structured and thoughtful crystallization linked to criteria/decision rules. Write the ballot for me. Predict where I could drop you and preempt it.Offensive extensions from case--and if applicable, extending opponents' arguments as links/impacts/impact turns. Arguments which are not extended, imo are dropped from the roundDepth of explanation + specific knowledge on a topic. I'm a big nerd so if you somehow bring in other literatures, empirical examples, creative/unique connections between concepts, go for it!Examples:Someone who used string theory to disprove a nanotech plan(In a bid round) Someone who knew the ins and outs of the electoral college and how that disproved their opponents' position on representationExtensive knowledge of a theorist and the context of their positions (historically, vis a vis other traditions)Example of specific knowledge: On the conscription topic, if you knew that the first two weeks of boot camp were the "indoctrination" period and applied that as a link to a militarism k...i'd nod approvingly and add 2 speaks...JUDGING METHOD:I default to a standard-extensions-weighing view of debate.Arguments must be clearly signposted, extended and weighed/linked to a decision rule (criteria, roles of the ballot, whatever) in order to be part of my decision calculus.I don't care what structure you use, just give me a mechanism for deciding the round and link your arguments to it explicitly.I also don't care about the type of decision rule you use. In my mind: "role of the ballot" = "criterion" = "standard" = "framework".A decision rule is just a decision rule. i.e. "He doesn't have a role of the ballot" does not count as an argument in front of me.Debaters who put in the effort to explain their arguments clearly, in English, and with depth/technical clarity will be rewarded with high speaker points and a much stronger chance I'll vote for them.Fair warning: I have a "no hacking policy." Your summer camp affiliation, coach rep, how many bids you have, etc. don't matter to me. People who assume the opposite have been bitterly disappointed.Know this: All students deserve an equal chance to win the round and I will always (and have always) judged accordingly.IN ROUND BEHAVIORNO POST-ROUNDING: Asking questions is fine, but given my extensive academic experience it's unlikely you'll say something I won't understand (unless you didn't explain it in English the first time, see the "DELIVERY" section).I have no patience for bullying or immature behavior (from students or coaches), or being cross examined and will swiftly and harshly correct such behavior if it occurs. Be professional.TECH ETIQUETTE: It is your responsibility to get your tech in order. Computers not working, issues with flashing files, getting the "blue screen of death", etc. are not excuses for holding the round up/getting the tab room to yell at me.This means:I won't vote for disclosure theory....let's just get that out of the way.I will start speech time if you are not being respectful of the judge/tournament/opponent's time.Handle your disclosure BEFORE the round start time, or by the end of your prep (or if you are going to share a file after calling prep, get that done within 10 seconds). Making a round delay by 2-3 minutes on tech will not be tolerated.Sloppy or irresponsible methods of disclosure will be harshly penalized, and maybe with a loss. This includes: giving your opponent unreadable/inaccurate disclosures, impossible to read files, giving your opponent files and then making them decipher out what you read/didn't read etc. Again, be professional.
In sum, I'll vote for the debater who effectively articulates a framework and/or decision rule and shows how their arguments (factoring in: turns, weighing, clear/effective delivery, intelligent analysis/research, depth / creativity of arguments, crystallization) outweigh the arguments their opponent may be winning relative to that decision rule.

You'll love/like me as a judge if: you want a fair chance to win the round, you like making intelligent, well delivered (and creative) arguments. You care about the arguments you run or at least in arguing them well.

You should strike me if: you are incomprehensible and are proud of it (i.e. refuse to adapt). You may expect a judge to hack for your school/rep/position. Your strategy is to turn every round into a theory war. You tend to like intimidating opponents/judge, or believe/argue bigoted stuff.
  