
  I debated LD for 4 years at Torrey Pines(2011). I now debate college parli at UC Berkeley (2015).

My favorite part of debate is during rebuttals when people make intelligent responses when actual thinking and debating happens. As a result I am happy to see smart and intuitive arguments that obviously answer other arguments as opposed to stock block spreads. Still remember to have fun and enjoy yourself.

Speed: I may not be able to flow as fast as some others, but don't let speed hinder you from making arguments. Just make sure to go slowly when signposting during rebuttals and when collapsing to important arguments at the end of the debate. I'll call clear once or twice.

Theory: I'm open to theory debates. It's easier to vote on theory, but I understand that theory debates can easily become muddled. Be sure to clear up the theory debate and explain concisely how you are winning it.
I default to competing interps over reasonability. If you argue for reasonability you need to explain the distinction between reasonable and unreasonable abuse.I evaluate RVIs like any other argument. Because of this, make sure you clear warrants as you would with any other argument.I don't buy arguments that fairness is not a voter.
Kritiks: I don't have any predispositions for or against them, but just be a little slower and more clear than you would for a standard debate.

Policy Style Arguments: I'm currently a college parli debater, so I'm fine with policy style arguments.

Extensions: Need to be made explicitly clear. In the end when explaining how I vote for you make the link story very explicit. Because of this I'm not okay with voting on an argument that I only sort of understand.

CX: I prefer that you take 3 minutes for actual CX but if both debaters honestly agree before the round to take flex prep that is fine, but note that I feel CX is a great place to earn extra speaks. I'm fine with you asking questions during prep.

What I Like: I like philosophical and unconventional/interesting arguments. I've read up on some philosophy, so don't feel that I wouldn't understand what you are saying. Just remember that clash and competition are more important than trying to impress me. This by no means implies that I don't like straight up policy/util/deont debates.

Stuff I Don't Like:
Out of round impacts. Honestly the world isn't paying attention.Disclosure theory.Robot-style debate of only reading off paper.
Just remember to have fun and be smart.

gl hf!
  