
  I debated for three years at Mountain Brook High School in Alabama, debating both on the local circuit and the national circuit my junior and senior years. I qualified to the TOC in 2009.
1. As a general rule, I prefer comparative evaluation of rounds. I feel that comparative rounds produce the most clash and therefore the best debates. That is not to say that I am not open to truth-testing or other forms of argumentation if such an interpretation wins, but it should be clear as to why your position affirms/negates.
2. I will evaluate the round in the way that I told by the debaters. If there are pre-standard arguments, I need to know both the order I need to evaluate them and how they interact with one another (if there are multiple). Absent such arguments, I evaluate the debate based on whatever standard I feel is winning. I expect weighing back to whatever standard both debaters agree upon, or at least to your own criterion.
3. I think a prioris are almost always bad arguments. I will vote on them only if I absolutely have to, and your speaks will suffer as a result.
4. I have a fairly high threshold for theory. I believe that it is an important aspect of debate in that it checks back abusive arguments, but I believe it ought not be abused itself. That being said, I will vote on theory that I regard as inappropriate if it is well developed and won. This means that you need to spend significant time in both of your speeches articulating your abuse story and warranting your arguments. Blippy theory will not be convincing.
5. Extensions are key. When extending an argument, you must extend the warrant and the impact of such arguments. Extensions missing parts of an argument will not be weighed. 
6. Speed is fine, so long as you are clear. I’ll say clear at least once, but if you remain unclear, I’ll eventually stop flowing. Be sure to articulate the names of your authors well.
7. Critical arguments are fine, but make sure to develop them sufficiently. I believe that these arguments can lead to great debates, but bad or unclear kritiks are annoying. Know your material and make sure the links are clear, and everything will be fine. 

Feel free to ask me any questions you have before the round, or email me at carter@busproductions.com.
  