
  Please add me to the Email chain: patrick.bircher7@gmail.com
Top Level:
Everything on this paradigm comes with the disclaimer: Don't let my preferences change what you do in round. I would rather you make a great argument that I am not familiar with than a bad argument that I know.
I believe that Affirmatives must defend the resolution. Read more about specifics below
Tech over Truth, unless the argument is something explicitly offensive
Please be respectful to your opponents
I believe that debate is a game. People play games for different reasons, whether that be to simply have fun, to win, or whatever it may be, just play your game.
Topicality:
T is often a very strategic argument, but not deployed effectively by both sides.
It is always a voter and never a reverse voter.
I tend to default to competing interpretations, however a strong defense of reasonability can be persuasive
Reasonability is a way to evaluate two different interpretations. It is not whether your aff is close, but whether your interpretation is okay for debate. 
I think that most debates revolve around the standards debate, and innovative takes on the classic standards (limits, ground, etc) are greatly appreciated.
Framework/ Topicality vs. Planless Affs:
I am heavily persuaded by Framework arguments, and I prefer debates about governmental action and the specifics of the topic.
Arguments centered around research practices or method debates are much more persuasive than generic fairness impacts.
Arguments like Topical Version of the Aff or Switch Side Debate can be used very effectively, however should not be used as offense.
Planless Affirmatives vs. Framework
I know I am not your first choice as a judge, but regardless of my preferences, I am willing to vote for not-topical affirmatives.
Use your aff specifically as offense, rather than deploying a more generic "roleplaying bad" argument.
Having your own interpretation of the words in the topic is important. Most neg definitions are pretty self-serving, and having a defense to that can be very helpful, unless your offense is specifically designed to counter that.
Disads:
Impact comparison is extremely valuable, however it should not come at the expense of in depth link and internal link analysis. 
Turns case arguments and specific links are greatly appreciated
Counterplans:
Counterplans are one of the most strategic arguments in all of debate. 
In depth and nuanced counterplans are extremely persuasive
I will default to sufficiency framing, unless otherwise told so
Affs-don't heg your bets on theory, but rather use your aff as offense against the substance of the CP
Kritiks:
I am probably not well versed in the literature of your criticism, so please explain arguments as if I have very little knowledge about what your are saying, because I do.
Explain how the K can change existing institutions or current governmental policies. Absent a clear explanation of how the alt works given the status quo it will be difficult for me to vote for you.
Clear, consise links to the mechanism of the aff, rather than just the actor go a long way.
Case:
The must underused, but most effective part of any debate.
I found that aff teams have a difficult time answering offense on case.
Use a combination of offense and defense on case in partnership with your off case to effectively win neg debates.
If the 2nr is not T, some part of the speech should involve case.
Theory:

Everything except conditionality is a reason to reject the argument
Condo is probably good, and unless it is extremely well argued or dropped I will probably default neg.
Any questions please feel free to email me.
  