
  1.Your experience with Lincoln-Douglas Debate (check which applies)
A.Current LD coach
B.Former LD coach
C.Former LD competitor
D.Summer LD instructor
XXX E. Experienced LD judge
XXX F. Former Policy debater
G.Collegiate policy debater
H.Current Public Forum coach or judge
I.Speech Coach
XXX J.Community Judge
K.No LD experience

2.Number of years I have judged LD Debate: 6
How many LD rounds have you judged this year? 4

3.Please indicate your attitudes toward typical LD practices
Rate of delivery (Slow, conversational style=1;Rapid conversational style=9): 1-6
Does the rate of delivery weigh heavily in your decision? No
Will you vote against a student solely for exceeding your preferred speed? I’ll put my pen down if it’s too fast to flow.

How important is the criterion in making your decision? 2
1.It is the primary means by which I make my decision.
2.It is a major factor in my evaluation.
3.It may be a factor depending on its use in the round
4.It rarely informs my decision

Do you feel that a value and criterion are required elements of a case? Yes

Rebuttals and Crystallization (check one of the answers for each question)
1.Final rebuttals should include: C
a ) voting issues b) line-by-line analysis,or c) both
2.Voting issues should be given: C
a) as the student moves down the flow; b) at the end of the final speech; or c) either is acceptable
3.Voting issues are: Preferred
a) absolutely necessary or b) not necessary
4.The use of jargon or technical language ("extend,","cross-apply,""turn,"etc.) during rebuttals is: A
a) acceptable or b) unacceptable or c) should be kept to a minimum

How do you decide the winner of the round? 3
1.I decide who is the better speaker regardless of whether they won specific arguments
2.I decide who is the winner of the most arguments in the round
3.I decide who is the winner of the key arguments in the round
4.I decide who is the person who persuaded me more of his/her position overall

How necessary do you feel the use of evidence (both analytical and empirical) is in the round? Evidence (not necessary=1; always necessary=7): 5 but analysis is key also

Please describe your personal note-taking during the round: 5
1.I do not take notes
2.I only outline the important arguments of each debater's case
3.I write down the key arguments throughout the round
4.I keep detailed notes throughout the round
5.I keep a rigorous flow



In approximately 100 words or less, please add any brief comments that you feel are appropriate. You might want to include information about practices that you encourage or discourage in a round.

I discourage kritiks, theory, and counterplans.ok ok
  