
  i debated for head royce for 4 years in high school, and am now a freshman at NYU. i judged several rounds on the topic over the summer, but please establish topic specific terms/acronyms/whatever.

also, none of these preferences are absolutes. read on, but know that i will try to be open minded about any argument. read what you're good at debating.
t - i usually default to competing interpretations. negative, you should be articulating ground you lose under the affs interpretation and both teams should do clear impact calculus. i like these debates, but please don't fall into blippy extensions of arguments just to outspread the other team.
theory - i think most theory is not well debated (that is to say, most teams don't go in depth enough for me to be persuaded) and i am not very inclined to vote aff on most theory debates. i think performative contradictions and conditionality are usually good unless you can explain in round abuse and impact it effectively.
disads - i like them... but negative please compare the da impacts to the aff. that goes the other way too - aff please rearticulate your impacts and explain their interaction with the da. i like politics.
k's - didn't go for them in high school, but i'll be more inclined to vote on them if you have specific links to the aff and clearly explain the alternative (that's not to say you need an alternative) without just using buzzwords and author-specific terms that i may or may not be familiar with.
counterplans - not inclined to vote for delay and consult counterplans... i dont think they're competitive. otherwise, strategic aff-specific counterplans are fun to listen to. oh, and you need a solvency advocate.
performance - not a fan. sorry. ill listen to it though.

random stuff
slow down during theory and topicality especially in the 2ac. extend cards with warrants and not just cites - i will not read 50 cards after debate to reconstruct what supposedly went down. don't steal prep, don't clip cards, and DON'T be mean. i love case debates. be funny if you can... but if you can't, please don't try. if you make a joke about alex zavell (dnugg) i will probably increase your speakerpoints.
  