
  I debated for 3 years at Nederland High School, in Nederland, Texas. I was trained by the Jeffery Martin, and I was Ali Maredia's partner for 2 years. I'm quite familiar with U.I.L. style policy debate.

Because I debated for 2 years with Ali Maredia, much of my judge philosophy is very similar to his. I do have my own personal preferences, but the cores of each of our respective paradigms are very similar.

Topicality – I'm totally okay with T arguments, but make sure they have proper structure so I can flow them appropriately. Although disputing definitions is important, I'd also like to clash on the standards and voters.

Disadvantages – Disads are totally fine. When providing impact calculus, I would like to hear comparisons between the DA impact(s) and the aff's advantages. Assess all the parts of the DA and really focus on the impact calculus. I'm not a big fan of disads with REALLY generic links. I'll be impressed with you disad if it's specific to the aff. If you are going to run a disad, make sure you have all the appropriate parts, such as uniqueness and link.

Counterplans – I am totally cool with CPs. However, I am open to aff theory and objections to CPs. If you think a CP is extremely abusive, it probably is.

Kritiks – They’re pretty cool and I am totally okay with them. However, I expect debaters to know them well if they decide to argue them. You need to explain relevant terms. I will not vote on your kritik if it is clear that you have absolutely no idea what it is about or if you cannot explain it to me well. I was never a big K debater, and I don't have a really large knowledge of K philosophy. I'm still open to Ks, but I'll be much more comfortable voting on them if they are well-explained. I find it difficult to accept a K without an alternative, so make sure you have one. If your K is demeaning, racist, homophobic, or insulting, I'm very likely not to vote on it. I don't think Ks are meant to be quick, blippy arguments. They should have depth and supply a good reason for it to be run.
  