
  Experience:

3 years of high school debate, including state and national circuit competition in LD, Policy, PF, and NX.
I'm fine with speed but am pretty rusty flowing nat circuit speed, so slow down on taglines, make sure I get your author, and then I don't mind if you fly through your warrants pretty quickly as long as you are able to slow down and do analytics on the evidence when needed.

Lincoln-Douglas Debate:

I'm a big fan of theory and topicality but listen to just about anything. I generally prefer Util-style framework with empirical evidence to advocate practical solutions to the resolution, but I definitely enjoy listening to competing values as long as there is adequate clash on the framework debate. As a policy judge I generally default to a policymaker paradigm, so if you really want to tender to my preferences/background you should provide the most viable solution to your side of the resolution as it would be presented by a congressman or a member of parliament, with clash on the solvency front as it pertains to the topic. 
I am not likely to vote on anything Kritikal unless it is very well run and very well linked, but generally, Ks are my least favorite arguments to listen to. I'm also not likely to love any complex meta-ethical framework as I see those sorts of things as only adding dilution to the topic that the NFL has intended you to debate.......theory?? ;). With all of that said, I have picked up kritikal-type frameworks before, it's just not what I prefer to hear. I really appreciate listening to unique cases and cards that are not being read by everyone else on the national circuit. Offense/Defense balance is a huge voter for me, so if you aren't putting offensive ink on your opponent's flow you are going to have a very hard time winning my ballot. Make sure your impacts are clear and that you have solid analytics on net benefits throughout the round. I enjoy a good line-by-line in your final speech, and lastly, don't forget to finish your final rebuttal with why I should vote for you.
  