
  Michael Blank

West Des Moines Valley High School
Junior-Varsity (JV) Policy
I have been a policy debater for a few years now and I have gone to the SDI (Spartan Debate Institute) camp.

AFF STUFF – I will accept all AFF’s except those without plan texts, no plan text no weight on AFF.
Inherency & Solvency – I will accept and weigh inherency and solvency more than most judges, and these two arguments can determine the debate if it comes down to it.Advantages – I will accept all advantages, including weird ones, though if it is very bizarre please do explain it.
NEG STUFF – I will accept all NEG arguments except high theory K’s.
On Case – I always like some on case stuff, especially against solvency and inherency and of course the advantages.Disadvantages – I will weigh DA’s though most times I won’t decide debates on them, rather I will weigh DA’s as more of on case like stuff like defense against the AFF and a reason why the CP/K is better if you’re running one.Topicality – I’m not that big of a T guy, though I will vote on T if you can persuade me, also I am fine with ASPEC being run as long as you explain why the AFF triggers ASPEC.Counterplans – Love them, run them if you can. Of course I always like good explanations on why the counterplan is better than the plan and what the counterplan does.Kritiks – I will accept K’s though the only K’s I know a decent amount about are Nietzsche, Security, and Capitalism K’s. I would always want a fairly good explanation on the K throughout the round since a lot of times Novices use K’s but don’t know what it is really about.
STUFF ON BOTH SIDES
Clash – I always want clash in the debate between arguments. No clash = bad debate.Tag teaming – Aka both people can talk during cross-ex, I will allow. As long as partners don’t start trying to talk over each other.Theory – Theory debates are fun, make sure to emphasize your points. I do accept all types of theory.Flashing/Emailing – I will allow flashing and emailing without using up prep time unless for some reason its taking a long time then I’ll have to start timing that under prep.Jokes – Good puns and jokes = higher speaks.Perms – Perms can and will decide debates if either sides fails to address them.
As always explain your arguments well, signpost always, and have fun!
  