
  I debated LD for Bettendorf High School for four years, and coached for two of those years. I haven't judged yet this school year, but I graduated from high school earlier this year, so I'm still reasonably close to the activity. I've also done a little Policy and PF.

I'm generally open to anything as long it has a warrant. I will never reject an argument on face just b/c I don't like it or I don't believe it's true.

The most important thing for me is that you weigh comparatively - weigh your arguments against your opponent's. Don't just tell me why your points are good, tell me why they are better than or more important than your opponent's. In a debate where one side gives me that big picture and the other doesn't, the side that does will win almost hands-down (unless you've made some huge mistake somewhere else). On the other hand, if there's a debate in which neither side is comparative at all, then I end up having to compare the arguments myself, which is intervening, and you probably won't like my decision.


Speed - Any speed is fine, just make sure you're watching me to see that i'm following along - if I've put my pen down, folded my arms, and am giving you a profoundly confused stare, that's probably a good sign that i'm not following along. That said, I have yet to see an LD speech I couldn't flow.

Unwarranted Theory - I have no issues with theory, but be aware that if you run theory in a round where intuitively, your opponent is doing nothing wrong, I will give considerable weight to the response that "I am doing nothing wrong!" If you're clearly running theory just to run theory, I'm going to give you a pretty high threshold of proof.

Critiques - I have no inherent objection to critiques, but please try to explain your position clearly (meaning, without all the verbose rhetoric). If i don't understand it, I'm not going to vote on it. Also, if you run a K, please make sure you link it to something I can vote on (the resolution, your opponent's arguments, anything). If there's no link to anything even remotely topical, obviously I can't vote for that.


If you have further questions, please feel free to ask.
  