
  Yale '17 Update: I haven't judged or thought about debate in a while so a) slow down b) I'm not up on the latest trends c) I no longer hold strong opinions about debate that I may or may not have held in the past.
Background: I debated for Scarsdale on the national circuit, graduating in 2015, and qualified twice to the TOC, reaching octas my senior year. I coached for two years but am no longer coaching. 
Conflicts: Scarsdale, Millburn CS, Woodlands DY, Roslyn RR

General:

My primary goal as a judge is to minimize intervention. So long as it has some semblance of a warrant, I will vote on any argument. LARP, framework, theory, krtiks, tricks, etc… are all fine. Since my belief that I should be tab is far stronger than my preference for or against any argument, I have found myself voting quite frequently for arguments that I didn’t like when I debated. 

Evaluation of arguments:
I do not believe in embedded clash and evaluate rounds very technically. I will evaluate whatever explicit interaction the debaters do instead of calling evidence to see how it “actually” interacts.Terminal defense probably exists; whether a piece of defense is terminal is up for debate.I have a low threshold for extensions of conceded arguments, but some extension is necessary.My tolerance for newness in the 2ar is probably lower than that of many judges.Absent argumentation on a framing issue (comparing worlds vs. truth testing, competing interpretations vs. reasonability, etc…) I will evaluate the round in the manner implicitly assumed by the debaters. This does not apply to offensive claims such as drop the debater on theory: that cannot be implicit and needs to be warranted. When debaters make no comparison between arguments, I tend to prioritize arguments based on strength of link rather than trying to evaluate the interaction or relative quality of arguments myself. 
Speaking/Cross-x:
I know every judge says this, but SLOW DOWN SUBSTANTIALLY ON TAGS, SHORT ANALYTICS, AND THEORY INTERPS /ADVOCACY TEXTS. Similarly, I struggle to process dense philosophy at top speed, so it is advisable to slow down on those arguments. I’ll yell speed/clear/louder as many times as necessary.Flex prep is fine, and you don’t need permission from your opponent to use it.
Miscellaneous:
Speaks are based on, in order: strategy, tech skills, big picture explanation, and argument quality. I have averaged very close to a 28.5 so far. Feel free to ask about my paradigm before the round or at michael.bogaty@gmail.com. Don’t be afraid to ask me questions after the round if there are aspects of my decision you are confused about, but be polite.
  