
  I debated locally and nationally at The Archer School for Girls in Los Angeles, attended the TOC my senior year, worked at VBI the summer after I graduated, and worked as a private coach last year. I'm currently a sophomore at Stanford. I haven't been involved with the activity this year.

I don't care what type of case structure or arguments you run. Just make sure you do a good job of explaining how I should evaluate the round and how the arguments function in terms of the evaluative mechanism that you set up. I shouldn't have to say this, but that means clearly extend your arguments, articulate the impact, and weigh it against competing evidence in terms of the evaluative mechanism. If there are different layers of the debate, tell me which ones I should be evaluating first.

SPEED: I've been out of the activity for a year and I was never able to flow as quickly as I spoke. That being said, you can go as quickly as you want as long as you slow down for authors and tag lines and clearly signpost throughout your speech. I'll say clear if you're going too quickly/I have no idea what you're saying.

THEORY: I really dislike theory when it's used gratuitously or run poorly. If there is clear abuse, then by all means run it. If you're purposely baiting theory then, at the very least, run it well. If you choose to use this strategy, be aware that I'll be very sympathetic to responses.

SPEAKER POINTS: Using CX particularly strategically, being funny (without being mean), or doing anything else particularly impressive will increase your speaker points. I reserve the right to give you a 15 if you casually use a phrase like "silence is consent" while making extensions or say anything else that's blatantly sexist/racist/homophobic/classist/etc.

FLEX PREP: Unless the tournament has a clear stance for or against flex prep, I'm fine with you using it IF both you and your opponent agree to it AND you spend three full minutes on traditional CX.

This is a pretty brief summary of my preferences, so if you have any specific questions that are still unanswered PLEASE ask me before your round.
  