
  School Affiliation: St. Vincent HS
Experience: 4 years high school debate
Currently: Junior at UC Berkeley

I love watching a good debate- nowhere else can I learn so much information about a new topic!

SPEED: Speed = I am good with, being unclear = I am not good with

TOPICALITY: A good T Debate is great- It's an a priori issue!. Have a reason why your definition is vastly superior for understanding and limiting the topic. Education is very important to me and hopefully to all of you. Explain specifically why the aff violates your definition.

DISADS: I appreciate as a good D/A. Make sure to do impact calculus- For example, I will find a 100% chance of nuclear war or extinction unlikely, however even a 1 percent risk of that still matters. Explain how the D/A interacts with the case, as well as it could outweigh it.

COUNTERPLANS: A very good strategy, though I won't deny that perms can often solve better than solely the counterplan. It is important to explain why the risk of the D/A caused by the perm outweighs double solvency. Impact Calc!

KRITIKS: Wonderful arguments- Import philosophical questions are something I enjoy thinking about. You want me to come out of the debate on your side on the critique meaning you must know that I understand why the aff causes this bad thing, why the alt solves that bad thing, and why the bad thing is more important than whatever else is happening in the debate. I don't agree with the notion of running 2 contradictory K's- you are probably missing the point of both of them if you do this. I ran K's in high school I didn't understand, and it is important to me to see that you understand your Kritik. Most likely after I sign my ballot I will ask you more questions about. I will be sad if I found I voted on a K that the debaters didn't understand.

FRAMEWORK: No matter what your theory blocs say- debate is about education. If that one side is violating a framework, which I am convinced is essential to education then you have done a good job. I generally find that kritik alternatives and policy making can both be evaluated- though I wouldn't mind changing my mind if you debate it well enough.
I like a nice story- something I can come back and say I learned from the debate!

Good Luck
  