
  Glenbrook North 12’
Northwestern 16’

General Comments:
In general, I don’t care what arguments you go for. I have no problem voting on no neg fiat, rollback arguments, cheating counterplans, etc. If an argument that could decide the debate is presented, warranted, impacted, and dropped I will probably vote for it as it is the responsibility of the other team to answer that arguments. That being said, here are a few specific thoughts:

Counterplans: Mainly two comments. First, I think that either the counterplan links to the net benefit or it doesn’t and in most debates it doesn’t seem like a link differential makes sense unless explained well by the negative. Second, you should tell me to kick the counterplan for you in the 2nr if you want me to do that for you. Besides that, it doesn’t matter to me what counterplan you go for or what aff arguments you extend. If you are extending/going for a perm in the 2ar please explain what the world of the perm looks like outside of just mouthing the words "perm do both solves" and explain why you think it shields the link to the net benefit.

Disads: Please have turns case arguments and aff please answer them. Additionally, I think that it is possible to have 0 risk of a disad based off of compelling, carded link uniqueness arguments made by the aff.

Theory: There should be terminal impact comparison and attempts to contextualize abuse to the debate round. You should also explain why theory has to be a voting issue/a reason to reject the team.

Kritiks: I am more persuaded by aff arguments in kritik debates. That being said, I have no problem voting on dropped neg k tricks (floating piks, etc). However, given that I find myself biased towards the aff, I appreciate a higher level of explanation from negative teams and contextualization of neg arguments to the affirmative.

Affs that don't defend a plan/performance/wilderson: not the best judge for it

Speaking Comments:
Please be nice/cordial in cross-ex/throughout the entire debate.
If you are absolutely beating a team and feel like you don’t need to use the entirety of your speech or prep time I am all for that.
  