
  Background: I graduated from Bronx Science in 2009. I'm currently a freshman at Harvard and an Assistant Coach at Bronx Science.

Summary: I generally think that David Marks is a genius and tried to be his protege in high school, so his judge philosophy is probably applicable here.

Generic critiques are bad. Specific case debates are good. Politics disads are good.

I think that most debaters have too shallow an understanding of basic international relations theory. Prime example: If realism is true, then the theory of soft power is not. Think about that for two minutes and if you can't figure it out, then you shouldn't be reading either argument. If anyone successfully utilizes and explains this argument in a debate, I will give them a 30. If anyone reads a soft power/cooperation aff and says realism good in the 2 AC, I will deduct speaker points and yell at you after the debate.

Disads: Politics is good. Impact work is really important.

Critiques: The Security K is awesome. After three years of reading it, I think this is the truest, most logical and most strategic critique in debate. Similar rep's k's are also awesome. I've read a lot of cap lit, and enjoy cap k debates. I think most other critiques are dumb. I don't understand and absolutely despise Nietzsche. I lost too many debates on Heidegger to enjoy hearing this arguement. I'd rather not hear eight minutes of the k, but if that's what you do, I'll live.

Case Debates: Awesome! Case arguements are really underutilized. Impact defense is by far the most underutilized argument in debate. Logical arguements, like terrorism doesn't cause extinction, are well supported in the literature and almost never read by debaters.

Theory/T: Conditionality is probably ok. I was a 2A so I have some empathy for the aff. Consult counterplans are bad. I'd rather not hear theory debates. T gets boring quickly and I'm certainly not an expert on the topic, but go for it if you want.

Don't be a dick. I'll take off speaker points. Try to be like Andrew Markoff.

If you have questions about anything, feel free to ask.
  