
  Paradigm:
It does not actually matter to me what you run, as long as you can defend what you read. That goes for both the affirmative and the negative team. If the affirmative team opts not to present a plan, that is fine as long as you can defend it. Give me a reason why that’s awesome / okay. Make sure you can explain why your alternative is more important than the abuse arguments the negative team is inevitably going to claim because you’re being abusive.

 Theory:
Theory debates, like topicality debates, are awesome, when those debating know what they’re doing. If you want to get my ballot on Topicality or Theory, give me an actual reason to vote on the argument aka Impact the debate! Cite specific instances of abuse, and tell me why I should vote on them. If you want me to vote on potential abuse make sure you tell me why I should be allowed to do this and why it is important, I do not default potential abuse. 

I hate unwarranted Spec arguments, this means make sure these is a specific instance of abuse or a very very specific reason why I should vote on your spec argument.*

 Line By Line:
Impact calculus in my mind is your saving grace! I love a good impact calculus and will vote on it if you give me a reason why it is more important than your opponent’s argument.

Also, if I don’t get it on the flow, that’s your fault. I can flow any speed as long as you are clear. If you are not clear I will make sure to let you know, once, from then on I will attempt to flow you but if I do not get it on the flow, it is your fault.

Additionally, it is extremely important for you to actually argue in the round. I appreciate clash and warranted explanation.

 Kritiks:
Critical arguments are legitimate and I will vote on them. I have a basic understanding of most critical debate arguments, but just because I say this do not assume I understand everything. This means you still have to do all the link, impact and alternative work. I will not do work for you. 

 Speaker Points:
I assign speaker points based on how clear and concise the speeches are, the quality of argumentation in the rebuttal speeches, and how pointed and polite the cross-x period is. I have no problem killing your speaker points if you are rude or if you do not answer questions. 

Paperless Debate:
For those teams doing paperless, I expect you to give the other team a laptop. If the other team is paperless or has a laptop it is fine to flash your speech over. It is NOT acceptable to tell the other team they can look over your shoulder. If you refuse to give the other team a laptop you will be dropped. Also, be respectful of everyone’s time with jumping files. If it takes you more than 45 seconds ish to jump the file, on your part, I will start your prep time, because if it takes too long you are cheating. If there is a major problem let me know and we will work with you.
  