
  Experience: 4 years of high school Forensics (as for which events specifically, that's for me to know and you to find out later). I now compete on the collegiate level for the University of Kentucky Speech and Debate Team.

Judging Experience: Since 2012 for Public Forum, Lincoln-Douglas, Policy, and Parliamentary.

General:
I have some personal preferences that extend to every form of debate. Firstly, please be courteous. Forensics is a fun, academic activity that allows people to communicate in the most persuasive manner possible. Being rude or purposefully distracting while your opponent is speaking will severely impact your speaking points. I'm always paying attention to rhetoric, and it will play into my decision, so please watch your arguments. Secondly, please stand when speaking or being questioned. It makes it easier on everyone. Finally, I flow every round, so please be clear with your tags. The neater my flow is the more clearly I can follow your arguments.

Also, I do not appreciate spreading. I have seen spreading in literally every debate event I have judged and I am still not endeared to it. If you do spread, I will drop my pen, when you slow down, I will pick it back up, but I will only allow this to happen twice, the third time I drop my pen, I won’t pick it back up.

Public Forum:
I will be as tabula rasa as possible*. However, what is most important to me is that the arguments are complex, well analyzed, and succinct.

Please be sure to have all the necessary parts. This means framework, realistic weighing mechanism, evidence with citations, tags, and definitions, just to name a few. Also, remember to impact and weigh every argument. Tell me why it matters and give me clear warrants. Additionally, be sure to interact with your opponent’s case. I would rather not have to judge a round with two cases just there, but not competing.





*However, that doesn't mean I accept blatantly false statements. Ex. "Global climate change doesn't exist." I also don't buy racism, sexism, discrimination, violence, suicide, poverty, torture, transphobia, homophobia, Islamophobia, anti-semitism, systematic disenfranchisement, or things like that being good.
  