
  Philosophy as of 11/17/15

Background: Aka Kelly Brill. I have been "retired" for 2 years now. I started in LD, spent 3 years in policy and have spent 3 years in nationally competitive parli debate (it’s like policy, without cards). I have been coaching at Sage Ridge for 2 years now, and I also assistant coach for the University of Nevada. I don't feel the need to detail my debate career.

I will listen to basically anything. After 8 years of debate, I am not sure anything would surprise me. However, I do have some preferences.

Speed: I need clear taglines and I need to be able to tell when you are reading a new card. You can use numbers or letters but just saying “AND” usually doesn’t make me realize you’re moving on.

T/Procedurals: It’s a useful tool to protect negative ground and if mishandled, deadly but if it is handled properly, do us all a favor and move on. I have warmed up to full-theory debate substantially. I do not mind theory in the way of counterplans because it can be important when it comes to perms and whatnot. I do mind spec arguments; they are not fun.

Disads: I love a nice, specific, probable disad. You can run politics, but absent persuasive evidence you might have a problem.

CPs: As a debater, a sweet DA/CP strat is my favorite and I often find that people don’t make enough use of that strategy. You may read a counterplan, and you may be conditional, unless the aff can prove why not.

Ks: I personally didn't go for the K that often but some of my favorite debates as a debater and as a judge have been critical. I think I have a good general understanding of a lot of literature. However, I am still not a philosophy major. (Poli sci, if you’re curious).

I love case debate as well. I think too many negative teams miss the easy arguments on case that may even win the round.

Speaker points: These are super subjective for me (but I have been called a point fairy, and frankly I'm not ashamed. You kids work hard). Sometimes you charm me and you get a 29+. Sometimes you appall me but I'll still give you a 26. Please try to charm me. I also have a very expressive face, so if you watch carefully you can probably tell how I'm feeling. If you have to address me, I would rather be called Kelly than judge.

Last thoughts:

Paperless debate: I don’t mind it but I HATE it when flashing takes 5 years. I won’t time your flashing but I swear I will drop your speaks if it gets excessive. Please don’t make me make that call.

Policy: Policy debaters tend to rely on their cards like they rely on air to breathe. Don’t. You can make an argument without a card, contrary to popular belief. Just have a claim and a warrant and I promise you can do it.

LD: I'm what you would call progressive AF. I can't help it. Policy made me this way. However, I will still (happily) listen to a traditional LD case. I see the value in every type of LD you want to do. If you want to read a classic value/VC case, I'm down. If you want to read a K, I'm down. If you want to read a plan text, I'm down. Ultimately, if you have questions just ask.

You can email me if you have questions pre or post round: kbrill@nevada.unr.edu. I'll try to reply quickly.
  