
  Background Info
I debated for 4 years in high school for Downtown Magnets High School (LAMDL) and I am currently a freshman debater at the University of Southern California. 
Misc. Debate Information
Please include me in the email chain using: vbriseno@usc.edu
I do not take prep time for flashing, but please make it quick. Please inform me if you're having technical difficulties.
Please do not make any arguments that may be racist, xenophobic, etc. Ad hominem arguments are not good either. 
Besides all that I am okay with any other arguments. I think straight turns are fine, but impact turns can make for very fun debates
Overviews are not necessary, but if you want to point out an important concession or something of the sort by all means go ahead, but please make sure that you point this out again on the line by line. 
Framing is important, especially if the framing is lenient. Telling me how I should evaluate the round is very important!
I will try my best to give constructive criticism at the end of the debate, if you have any specific questions before or after the debate please ask away. I will disclose my decision, but I will not disclose speaker points. 
I'm okay with "tag team" during cross x but please make sure that cross x is even among partners because it will definitely impact speaker points. 
Debate
Case
Case is very important so make sure that case is always extended and not dropped by the end of the debate. Teams sometimes focus so much on off cases that they forget to use their case offensively. Furthermore, the negative needs address the arguments made on case. 
DAs
DAs by themselves will not be enough of a voting issue. They need to do one or two of these:
1) Have a strong link and have an impact that outweighs the affirmative
2) Serve as a net benefit for a CP
CPs
CPs are cool but please make sure that it has a net benefit so that it can actually be competitive with the affirmative's plan. I'm okay with any type of CP, but I may be more lenient towards the affirmative if the CP is just a consult CP or an agent CP that has no specific, clear application to the affirmative's plan. 
Ks
I'm a big fan of Ks. I also don't usually believe that the alternative will actually solve anything, but the perm and etc. should always be answered. With that being said, the link and impact debate are the most important for me when it comes to the K debate. 
Framework/T
I grouped these two arguments because my comments for these are generally the same. These debates should always be specific to the round. They should have a substantial impact that outweighs what is going on in the round. Furthermore, these arguments should always be telling me how I should view the round and debate as a whole. 
Speaker Points
Just don't be mean, overly-sassy, or make any of the arguments I mentioned in the first part of this paradigm and you will most likely not get something lower than a 27.5. Cross examination is definitely taken into consideration for speaker points. If one partner is doing all the talking, they will most likely get the most speaker points. Bonus speaker points if you make me laugh during the debate round. 
  