
  I am as traditional of an LD judge as you will find. I have been coaching LD since 1992 and judging it since 1988.

Case Analysis

Debaters need to base their arguments on a value that is supported by a measurable criteria. The value has to be clearly defined and linked to all the arguments in the case. It shouldn't be something that is just floating at the top of the case without any links. Strong philosophical links are very important to case analysis. There should be a clearly defined case structure on both sides. Finaly, I am not into playing games. Debate the resolution in the case. I do not buy any theory arguments.

Rebuttals
Clear and organized rebuttals are important to me. Don't jump all over the flow. The only way that I give you an argument is if you explain it. Don't just claim that an argument applies: Prove it. I expect clear voting issues at the end of NR. I also expect that 2AR will focus only on the voting isues.
CX
I expect that both debaters will be civil to each other and to me. I do not tolerate arrogance or rude behavior during CX.

Delivery

LD Debate is a communication event. Therefore, I do not accept speed of any kind in the round. I expect that the average person should be able to come into the round and understand what you are talking about. If I cannot flow an argument, I will not give it to you. Remember, I am the one that you have to convince to vote for in the round. If I can't understand you, then I can't vote for you.I also expect debaters to behave in a professional manner in the round. I do not expect that orators will be drinking out of water bottles during their speeches and I do not expect that debaters will be casually sipping on water during the round either.Good delivery is important to good communication. I expect that debaters will stand up straight and not lean over desks during constructives or rebuttals, make eye contact and be civil to both their opponent and the judge.

Other Notes

I hate the use of timers especially in CX and Prep Time. In both of those instances you should be focused on what you are doing and not on the timer. Timing is my job as a judge. No matter what your timer says, my time is the official time in the round.I also begin timing when you start talking. You don't get lots of extra time to preview and sign post. That is part of your speech time. (I expect that you will preview or sign post, but it is part of your time.)
  