
  My paradigm defaults to framework established during the round. I won't say I'm tab because I also evaluate the flow as a key factor. This is to promote objectivity and prevent my intervention.

I'm a warrant Natzi and will not do flow work for you E.g. Extend your evidence properly.

K's I'm ok with any and all my only caveat is you had better know it before you read it because it's very obvious if you haven't and that's just bad debate. I don't like do nothing ALTS but I will accept them.

CP's- must have a workable net Benefit

DA's - if you run a dissad I need impact calculus. And up to date uniqueness cards. And decent links.

T-must have warranted standards And voters extended through the debate. Functions as a pre fiat issue and is evaluated after framework

FW- must have standards and voters and if you advocate as the neg for a policy frame work you had better have a CP or a K alt to compete with the aff plan.

Theory - run it I love having to think.

Abuse-don't cry for it I can understand when it's happening sob stories are for lifetime movie network and your mom.

Aff- anything goes as long as you run the proper FW.
Speed go for it but you had better be audible. I yell clear once if I can't make out what you're saying which should be tough given my history and after that I stop flowing till you correct yourself. Articulation is key. All that being said I've only had to tell clear once in the three years I've judged. So I can flow most everything.
To get perfect speaks- be organized especially with the line by line. If you announce your road map at the beginning stick to it please ( I'm a flow judge and I'd like to flow your arguments where you'd like them for both our sakes) . Also don't be rude I know it comes with the territory in debate but I don't care. It's a let level of mine given my history and I will dock you for it. And lastly be efficient in evidence exchange. I know in this age sometimes we have malfunctions with tech but if it's a persistent thing throughout the round and it hinders the flow of the debate I will dock speaks. Worst case scenario all of you should have paper copies of your cases and 1nc as backup.
LD- see above. and after frame work I evaluate the value criterion debate as prima facia other than that traditional progressive I don't care I debated both ways and I'll accept both ways.
  