
  I have been the coach at the Maggie L. Walker Governor's School since 2000.
My involvement in debate has mainly been with Lincoln-Douglas although more recently I have
started a Student Congress program and have become involved with Public Forum.
My judging philosophy regarding Lincoln-Douglas Debate is as follows:

Speed: not a fan of it. The Virginia Catholic Forensic League which we compete in has worked
very hard to keep speed out of L-D debate so this is what I am used to and what I prefer. Obviously,
I have had to adjust to this in some of the out of state tournaments that I have judged. My main
problems regarding speed are that 1) so few individuals are capable of doing it well 2) it
tends to replace actual argumentation skills with simply trying to spread the opponent
and 3) despite advance warnings to debaters that I will provide signs on whether I am able
to follow them or not, no debaters who speed tend to pick up on this.

Evidence: I am old school regarding Lincoln-Douglas debate. I don't ask for cards. I don't mind
the usage of empirical evidence in the round, but generally feel that I can pick up on whether
or not the evidence is genuine on my own. Countering with cards or using solely empirical
evidence won't sway my opinion in your favor. The arguments should show a mixture of pathos and logos.

Value Debate: I do prefer discussions that center around value debate. However, I rarely vote just
on value debates. The contentions and how they connect into the value is most important.I do accept Balance Cases
for the neg. I have run across a few cases where some very good debaters have tried to place the burden of proof on
the negative-sorry, it won't work.

Crystallization: please crystallize the round for me in 1 NR or 2AR. Provide me with what you think the voting issues
are in the round.

Definitions/observations: sometimes these can be a waste in the round, but on some resolutions it is crucial
that a fair, level playing field is established. Set the standard for the round.

Speaker Points: I will deduct speaker points for those debaters who seem to believe that you
should always claim that your opponent dropped everyone of your arguments (when in fact they
didn't) or those who insist on cx in refuting even the most basic questions of their opponent.
  