
  I debated CX for 3 years at SFA High School in Austin, Texas. I would give you some form of prestigious, illustrious debate career background, but I don't have that, so instead you can have my prefs.

Mannerisms: 
Feel free to talk to me about any concerns you might have before round, or anything you couldn't find out on this wiki.
If you ask for disclosure from the Aff, You better disclose your past 2NRs, and vice versa.
Debate is a sport, sports to me are glorified games. Be as serious as you like in round, but out of round, none of this matters.
If you have preferred pronouns of any sort, or any other diction preferences along those lines, let it be known before round.
I had to dress nice in debate, I hated it, so I dressed like a fancy cowboy. You do not have to dress like a cowboy, but clothing will determine how seriously I take you off the bat.
I am a judge, not a debate calculating machine. You don't have to spread an argument to me just because you're self conscious about your speaker points, if you wanna talk an argument to me, go for it. I'll listen. I don't have a Facebook, I only play CS at night, and my girlfriend still isn't talking to me for some reason. So I have literally nothing else to do.

T:
I thoroughly enjoy T arguments, if you make them I will always flow them, I think its fun. T as you please.

Disads: 
I view all of debate as a sort of nerdy pissing contest who's only national sponsors are various news media outlets and Law School. That being said, when it comes to disads, have the link debate in the beginning of the round, and keep me reminded of the impacts throughout. I don't care how fast you can fill the jar, just how well you do it. I'm gonna have to hold them both up to the light at the end of the round anyways, I'll prefer the less sticky one.

CPs:
I don't feel like this needs a lot of coverage, either prove your CP is mutually exclusive, or provide some kind of net benefit. If you're not running a K, I'd prefer to see one of these. Or do both. I'll figure it out. That's why they're paying me. The only reason I'm doing it is because I need to eat. They forget to tell you that about college.

Ks: I'll be honest with you, I never ran K's, and I don't know a ton of philosophy. If you run K's, that's perfectly fine, and it's an integral part of debate. Just pitch it to me slow, take your time, and don't be afraid to talk to me like a child. If I understand your argument really well, and it makes sense, that's why I'll be voting for you. As a judge I try to be as unbiased as possible, so I will listen to anything. Just spoon feed it to me.
  