
  Austin Brown.

Broward College Student.
Debated 4 years at Fort.Lauderdale High School in both PF and LD.

Public Forum Paradigm:

Some people think it's weird that I have a public forum paradigm, but if people could have seen the rounds that caused this paradigm to occur they would agree.

I usually start off all my rounds the same way.

I love a framework debate. Speed is not an issue, however, BLIPPY ARGUMENTS WILL NOT BE FLOWED !!!! So if your plan is to speak really really fast to jam a bunch of arguments against a contention when in actuality you aren't saying anything, THINK AGAIN. (MWAHAHAHAHAHAHA)

I love an intense debate round ! CrossFIRE is called crossFIRE for a reason, there should be little Charzards shooting fire at each other for 3 minutes straight ! I love sarcasm, make your opponent look dumbfounded ! Have fun with it, laugh and smile. Of course while doing so destroying the competition.

I was once asked if voters should be the same in both summary and final focus. The answer is: IDC. If your voters change based of something you hear in the opponents summary that's absolutely fine. Go for the arguments that you believe yourself to be winning.

Because I vote heavily on the flow, I'm not really looking up at you while you read your case so it's really hard to judge speaks because i'm suppose to factor in eye contact, if your tie is straight, how tall your heels are (for the ladies, or guys too if that floats your boat. #WOMIN), and if you're coordinating with your partner because if you're not YOU LOSE. The part of you losing is a joke....maybe. But seriously because I can't see you I give high speaker points if I believe you should be in out rounds and if you speak REALLY REALLY well. Like if your voice is like chocolate syrup i'll give you a 30. Another way to get 30 speaks is to make jokes and bring me food. If you bring me food you automatically get 30 speaks and i'll love you forever. (I REALLY LOVE CHIPOTLE, Burrito, White Rice, steak, EVERYTHING no guac.) And my love is great.. But of course that doesn't mean you get the WIN because LOW-POINT WINS DO EXIST.

Evidence: No prep time is wasted when a team is LOOKING for evidence. Once the team that asked FOR the evidence has the evidence PREP TIME BEGINS. If the team DOES NOT HAVE THE EVIDENCE IN ROUND, I will not consider the evidence VALID.

Also, if you believe that someone is MISREPRESENTING evidence tell me to take a look for it after the round. It is not fair for me to question a persons evidence because I believe it to be false, the debaters must do it themselves.

All students must bring copies of all sources, which must include the full context of the citation, not simply a retyped list of short sentences and quotes. 
Debaters must make said sources available to either their opponent(s) in the round, and/or their judges after the round upon request. Debate entries failing to do so, or debaters who significantly misrepresent sources in the round may be disqualified at the discretion of Tab. 
All rules are subject to change. The tournament will make you aware of any changes at registration

Obviously, I have no tolerance for racism, homophobia, anti-feminist, bullying or any other rude mannerism that could lead someone to commit suicide.

If you like the way I judge, tell your friends and give me 1's so I can judge finals of like harvard lol. #JudgeDreams

#DebateIsLife
  