
  I am fortunate to be an LD judge at such a prestigious event and am very proud of and inspired by competitors who obviously worked hard to prepare and bring passion to either Aff or Neg to be victorious. My experience with debate is in the judge’s seat for three years as a parent of a student at Palm Harbor University High School. Lincoln Douglas is an exceptional branch and I wish you the best of luck in your rounds. I know you deserve exceptional judges and I will strive to not fit the negative stereotype associated with someone being “just a parent.”

I deeply respect traditional aspects of LD such as establishing proper and logical framework, cross-ex, etc. The last thing I want to do is disappoint you by not having intimate knowledge of some LD elements like Ks, Disads or Theory. Please know that I will focus on the big picture and you will succeed with any method that proves your value criterion as highlighted by your contention. I recommend you manage your speaking and prep times efficiently. Excessive time left on the table is a wasted opportunity and always baffles me as a judge.

You will see me taking copious notes typically as I truly want to capture the nature of your arguments and points, though it may not follow the flow of a traditional LD judge. I value evidence over simple assertions and claims without concise analysis are hard to quantify. I appreciate when an opponent capitalizes on a topicality weakness. Any statistic that has timed itself out of relevance is never conducive to your argument. For rebuttals, I once heard it described as “Clash! Don’t Rehash!” and I agree that to use rebuttals effectively you should refute every argument possible. With regard to speed, spread if you must but realize that if I can’t absorb your case, if I can’t digest your logic - your speed will be an impediment to your success. Organized summaries that truly drive home your opponent’s weaknesses also helps seal your case.

Overall, strategy is key and thinking quickly and addressing your opponent’s arguments in a systematic way resonates with me as a judge. Spirited debates are interesting, but should you ever venture into being disrespectful, making personal attacks or utilize any other unprofessional methodology, you will immediately undermine your skills. I appreciate individual style and though I do not offend easily – racist or sexist comments used to bolster your case will be detrimental. Being the loudest also usually indicates to me that you are overcompensating for a lack of confidence in your logic. Tough competitors should give it their all, finish the round, shake hands and nod with respect (even to a novice who is just beginning) knowing that you will improve in some way every time you face an opponent. 

Thank you for all you do to bring excellence to each and every debate competition.
  