
  Judging Paradigm – Barbara Bryan
LD coach Mountain View/Los Altos, CA
Judging LD for 10 years

Paradigm. I will do my best to be tabula rasa.

Standards. I like to hear established burdens. In the best rounds, burdens are agreed upon by both debaters.

Theory. Theory is necessary to check back abuses, just be sure it is properly constructed and well-explained. I will vote on RVI's if you are winning on theory and on the RVI argument.

Critical or skeptical argumentation is also okay if it’s explained well and run well, but if your case has complex argumentation + unapproachable language ... please slow it down a little. If I’m not flowing, you should probably be explaining. Also, if you're running something that is pre-fiat, please label it as such. That said, I struggle with critical argumentation, and if you have something else to run in front of me, that might be better for you.

Speed. With complex or innovative arguments, you will need to slow it down a bit. Don’t go faster than you can clearly enunciate. If I cannot understand you, I will call “clear”. Signpost and slow down for your tag lines and card authors. You and your opponent have the advantage of reading your case and evidence, I can only flow what I hear and understand.

The end of the 2NR and the 2AR should be prioritization of the arguments and clarification of the main issues of the round. Write my ballot for me. Clearly tell me where you are winning and where I should vote. DO NOT power through the line-by-line at the end of the round! This is where the burden comes in. The 2-3 well developed arguments should be explained in terms of how they help you meet your burden. I am much more likely to vote on substantive issues anyway.

Speaker Points. I like to judge and promise you will get my best effort. Therefore, I have decided to become a point fairy. Typical speaker point range 28-30. Average 29.

Show respect to your opponent and for the activity. Though my decision will be based solely on the arguments presented, I appreciate professional conduct. I have never dropped a debater for abusive conduct, but reserve the right to do so.
  