
  Background: I have 16 years of coaching experience. I coached previously at St. Francis High School. Currently coach at Robbinsdale Cooper High School and Robbinsdale Armstrong High School. Along the way I have figured out a way to coach a few successful students.

Decision Making Process: I classify myself as an old school LD judge. What exactly does that mean? I would love to see a debate about the criterion and how the arguments in the round apply to it. (A good old-fashion value debate is fine also but values have all but disappeared in LD debate and I understand that.) Everything should apply back to the criterion/standard. I rarely buy into the pre-standard argument. If you make one you better be prepared to explain to me why I should accept a pre-standard argument and vote on it instead of the standard (i.e. explain why LD debate has been wrong all these years).

Framework/Theory stuff is fine to a point. The wackier it is the more you need to explain to me why I should believe that argument and vote on it. Simply saying its an a-priori isn't enough. You need to explain it so I understand why its more important than the criterion in the round.

Debate the topic, defend your side and provide some offense why I should vote for you.

Speed: I'm not a huge fan of it. That doesn't say you should be slow. Watch me. If I'm not flowing that most likely means I cannot understand you. I would prefer stuff to be explained. I won't call evidence after the round so make sure I hear it. I'm not a fan of a neg whose sole goal is to spread the aff out of the round and I am somewhat forgiving to the affirmative. I would prefer the aff to be understandable in the 1AR and go for the big offense as opposed to blip arguments to cover everything.

Points: My scale is anywhere from a 20 to 30. Average is around 27. If you want a 30 you should be reading evidence (in the 2 also - extension not new). Be clear, understandable and smart. Voters on the flow are fine but you should still have some sort of conclusion/summary to wow me at the end of the speech. Be smart, confident and don't be a complete ass in the debate. I've found that as years has progressed that my tolerance has decreased and so has my willingness to hand out 30 like cotton candy. If you are smart, clever and don't make the debate into a complete mess. You will get good speaker points. If you make the round into a big turd you will find yourself in trouble.

If you have a specific question. Feel free to ask me at the start of the round.

DJ
  