
  Experience: 3 years high school debate (about 1 1/2 years in VSS, and the rest split b/w PF and LD) and three years of judging (this is my third year). I have done many in-state Wisconsin debates and judged in Tennessee, South Carolina, Georgia, Illinois, and Minnesota for my out-of-state. I work with a team in Tennessee for experienced PF (there is no policy in TN). 

Restrictions: Appleton East

Paradigm: I typically stay as a tabs judge because I think that putting limits on debate hinders the activity of itself. That being said, I am not afraid to ignore poorly-made arguments from either side. I will listen to speed, but if it's muddled or sloppy, I will call you out on it once, and if it continues, stop flowing. The important thing is for you to get your points across. If that means speaking at a standard rate, great. If that means speed-speaking and you're clear, great. I tend to not pull through minute details unless I am given the card to look at myself (I will also call for cards if needed).

T: I'll vote on it if I have to do so, but I would prefer them to not be just a time-suck. Make them an integral part of your strat.

DAs and Advs: Be realistic about them. 

CPs: That's fine. Again - integral part, not just an arg on the table for the other team to respond to during the round.

K: It had better be ungodly amazing for you to run it in front of me. I am completely unafraid to vote a team down because of a god-awful K that they ran and don't even understand the ideas of it. Read the literature behind the K so you can fully understand and extend the living sin out of it during round.

New in the 2: Really? Skip that. The block should be for extending arguments in the 1NC. 

Read your solvency cards. Another judge has this on their paradigm and I am shocked that I have to say this as well. Do not be giving your speech or in CX and be reading your card for the first or second time and have little to no clue what you are reading/have just read. That's part of prepping and cutting cards.
  