
  Budny, Maddie
Debater, University of Pittsburgh, Class of 2017
Experience:
I debated in both middle school and high school which totals to seven years of experience (if you think Middle School counts). I am now entering my third year of NDT-CEDA debate at the University of Pittsburgh. All together, I have been involved in debate for almost 9 years. 


I don't judge very much during the year, but have worked at Umich 7 week for the past two years as an RA, and judged many practice debates. This means I know a decent amount about the topic, but you might have to break down some jargon and abreviations for me.
The gist of it:
Don't call me judge in your speech. You can call me by name, or just assume I know you're talking to me. Note: People seem to get really flustered about this line in my paradigm. Seriously, don't stress out about it. It's just a pet peeve. 
I will vote for essentially anything if you win the argument (by essentially I mean the other team probably doesnt have to do much work explaining why time cube isnt an argument, or beating a morally reprehensible impact turn, ya know). I try my best to avoid doing work for you, and I would prefer to be able to draw a direct line from 2AC-1AR-2AR, block-2NR to vote on an argument. If an argument is 100% new, the next speech can tell me they aren't answering it. This is only if its 100% new - if you're in doubt, you should probably answer it, but for example if the 2AC on cap is all defense, and the 1AR has three cards on cap bad, the 2NR probably doesnt have to answer the new turns.

This does not mean I need you to extend the entire 1AC in every aff speech, but you should probably mention it.
Things you should know:
I am reasonably familiar with the K, I like the K, but that also means I have a threshold for wanting it to be run well. That being said, I would call myself a policy debater who runs kritikal arguments. I love a good policy debate. I love a good anything debate. I tend to lean more towards tech>truth, but I also look for meta-framing issues to guide me while deciding rounds.
I do not fall strongly on either side of the "new debate" vs "old debate" divide. I've voted on framework, I've voted against framework. Do whatever you feel the most comfortable with. 
If you want to run Anthro, you should probably know that I have a really high threshold for the argument. Don't get me wrong: I'm down with the independent speceism bad args (factory farming, eating meat, etc) but the terminal impact often seems like a stretch, especially when weighed against other systemic impacts. You're going to have to do a lot of work to convince me that speceism outweighs institutional racism or sexism. 
I have a low-tolerance for gendered language and otherwise offensive language. If the other team asks you to stop saying something, and you continue, you will lose speaker points. If someone tells you their pronouns and you misgender them repeatedly, you will lose speaker points. 
Something else you should know, on T/FW, I don’t default to loving or hating it. I am sympathetic to reasonability, but if you don’t have a defense of why you are reasonable, don’t bother extending the argument. I will vote on impact turns on T without a counter-interpretation, but you have to prove why they come first. 
Condo is probably good. 
If a CP has a solvency advocate, it probably isn't cheating. 

Speaker Point Policy:
Speaker points are given based on argument delivery and how effective you respond. Speaker points are only actively removed based on offensive language, never because of my own personal preferences of argument style.
  