
  Max Bugrov
 
East Los Angeles College 2009-2011
California State University, Fullerton 2011-2013
Did my undergrad in Comm Studies. Doing my masters in Comm Studies. 
No one is a blank slate, tabula rasa, or open to everything, whatever that means. We all have preconcieved notions and ideologies.
Given that ideological predicament, I believe that kritiks are educators first. That means that it's not my place to tell you what you should be reading, how you should be debating, or have you pander to me. This is your thing. You enjoy it and learn from it.
I love debate.
I will work hard for you like I wanted my judges to work hard for me.
Don't cater to my interests - you decide what the debate should be about.
Debate your heart out. 
Specifics, if those matter to you:
T
The topic exists, deal with it. How you deal with it is up to you. I'm not offended if you're not topical, I never was. Teams who are persuasive as to why T matters win. Teams who are persuasive as to why T does not matter, win. Fairness, Education, Ground, etc. mean nothing without contextual explanation. 
FW
Framework matters. Framework is above all else a prior question and determining which frame we use is important. K's bad, or Policy bad is not persuasive to me. Articulating as to why your particular enframing is a good one / your model of debate is good, is persuasive. I like the framework debate. 
DA's
Cool. 
CP's
Cool. The more interesting the CP the better. 
K's
More of my thing, I guess. Have a good grasp of your literature, explain it well. Literature contradicts - teams that point out internal contradictions within the argument are more persusasive. K's need to deal with the case to some degree. You don't exist outside of the aff. You need to be - responding - to the aff. Specific links are great, they don't always exist. That's fine. Make it happen. 
Alternatives are also important. Explanation of alternatives need to be indepth. In addition to the alternative, deal with the perm. Pls.
Case
It's important, don't forget about it after the 1ac. Don't make assumptions about what I want the world to look like. Prove aff good, neg bad. Use your case. 
I really dig risky, bold moves. Being confident enough to take that leap is rewarded. 
I'm pretty easy to reach if you have any specific questions. 
  