
  Fundamental Theoretical Stuff
No argument is wrong before it is answered. A dropped argument is a true argument.New arguments in the 1AR or later do not normally affect the decision, but I do write them down.My default behavior is to ignore new rebuttal arguments.A team could conceivably justify a new argument in the 1AR or the 2NR, because the other team has a chance to refute the justification.I will always ignore new 2AR arguments unless a justification has been made and won in advance.I might ask to read evidence from the round.Requesting that I read a card does not guarantee that I will read it, but it increases the likelihood. Such requests must happen during the round.I will read a card if there is a dispute over what it says.I will read cards on a particular issue if I cannot otherwise settle that issue.I will look for ways to avoid reading evidence.The speech time limits are absolute.Everything except the time limits is fair game for argument, including how I should evaluate the round. Please debate the framework if it is relevant.If teams fail to debate various aspects of how I should decide, I will resort to defaults:The team whose stance is expected to yield the best material outcome wins.The “best material outcome” is determined by the presence of offense.Absolute defense is possible but unlikely.A “stance” does not necessarily require a governmental policy, but I tend to assume in the absence of argument that individuals are much less powerful than the government.If all outcomes are absolutely equal, I will vote for the status quo.All outcomes are almost never absolutely equal.I will vote for the lesser of two evils.If neither team is advocating the status quo and all expected outcomes are absolutely equal, I will vote affirmative.The voter on theory or topicality is an argument about how I should decide the round.By default, given a voter, theoretical arguments precede other forms of evaluation. This framework is debatable, but I favor it.Given a voter and the absence of additional framework arguments, my default paradigm for theoretical arguments is similar to my default elsewhere:The team whose stance is expected to yield the best material outcome wins the theory sub-debate.The “best material outcome” is determined by the presence of offense.If all outcomes are absolutely equal, I will ignore the theoretical objection.Debaters should note that the above description is different from the way many judges look at theory. I have no default “threshold”: if the team raising the objection wins the voter, any amount of offense justifies a ballot.
Argument Preferences
I try not to let my personal preferences determine the outcome of the round. If you say things which are offensive, I will not automatically vote against you, but I might reduce your speaker points.You should not assume that I already know what your K authors say. Clear explanations are useful.I like good topicality and theory debates.I like debates about reasonable ethical impacts. Please discuss the relative merits of giving ethical claims different levels of priority.I’m not a fan of ASPEC, plan vagueness, nihilistic Ks, objectivism, or Malthus. Unfortunately, I have voted on each of these at one time or another.There are some arguments which I dislike enough to provide specific advice for answering them in front of me:Constitutional convention counterplans. Argue that it is fiat abuse: too many actors; too many steps; fiat denies best aff answer which should be implausibility; ratification is object fiat.Consultation counterplans. Perm: do both. The time frame of plan was not specified strictly enough to conflict with the time frame of the perm.Offsets counterplans. Perm. Only plan text has burden of topicality.State counterplans which involve simultaneous and cooperative action of all fifty states, and counterplans which use the Supreme Court to devolve authority to the states and then fiat state action. Fiat abuse: too many actors; fiat denies best aff answer which should be implausibility; lit doesn’t assume simultaneity. For “Lopez,” state action is object fiat.The framework argument that "fiat is an illusion." The K alt is also purely hypothetical.
  