
  Robert J. Buscho, J.D. 

1. General and synoptic comments. For me, writing a judging philosophy is problematic on at least
three levels. First, for some, it may be little better than a forensic Rorschach test. See W. Empson,
Seven Types of Ambiguity (New York: New Directions, 1947). Second, there’s the danger of a form
of the Hawthorne effect - I may have the audacity to try to follow what I write. Third, there’s the
danger the “philosophy” is little more than over-generalized, long-winded statements of “likes” and
“dislikes,” which, outside a debate round, have little to no intrinsic meaning. I’ll try to keep this
brief.
Here’s what I try to do during each round to which I am assigned: a) I try to be present, b)
I try to listen carefully, c) I compare and evaluate what appear to be the final rhetorical positions of
each side of the debate, and d) I weigh or assay those positions to determine which side did the
proverbial “better job of debating.” I think it’s OK for teams to ask me about specifics prior to the
round so long as no attempt is being made to “pre-condition” my ballot.
For those into labels or schools of thought, I tend to consider myself a policy analyst with a
heightened appreciation for kritikal argument (although my critics say I’m just a hypothesis tester
with a heightened appreciation for policy argument). In all respects, however, I try very hard to be
a non-interventionalist judge, meaning I try insofar as I’m able to let the in-round participants frame
and stage the debate. If sides want me to assume a particular standard for decision or framework for
decision and provide me with sufficient warrants, that’s what I’ll do. After all, it’s your debate; I’m
just the critic.
I’ve been judging high school and university debate for over ten (10) years, and I debated in
high school with marginal success and with greater success in college at University of California -
Riverside. I won tournaments at Lewis & Clark College, University of Oregon, University of San
Francisco (twice), the California Governor’s Cup and advanced to quarterfinals at Junior College
Nationals. I had lots of fun debating. I want the participants in the rounds I critic to have fun, too.
One of my former debate partners, Kirk Knutsen, gave a talk on the “Psychology of Winning” which
I highly comment to your viewing at vimeo.com/5646348. It’s especially important to emphasize
that I try to be “present” during the debate and am actively listening. It’s constantly amazing to me
to see how much I pick up on non-verbal communications during rounds.
Here are some other comments more specifically targeted for your consideration.

2. Topicality. When I debated, T was “the last refuge of the damned.” I still adhere (somewhat) to
that point of view, and I still rarely ballot on T, and usually do so when the aff. mishandles some
response. “Reasonable,” for me, means rhetorically defensible. I reject the position that
reasonability is subjective (and even if it is that just turbo-charges the position that language is
unstable). I also categorically reject arguments based on some need to limit research burdens or
promote education. If you don’t want to research, don’t do policy debate. I also think that the
educational benefits of debate take place in the library or on the ‘Net (no, not the “adult” sites) and
that the round is the stage upon which the education is performed.

3. Extra - T. Here, I tend to give a little more love. While I will respect plan provisions that are “in
furtherance of” the resolution, I will strike plan provisions with little tethering to the language of the
resolution and benefits arising from those provisions.

4. Kritical argument. I do enjoy good kritical argument and debates. I don’t see very many of them.
I was fortunate to have been an English major when deconstruction was expanding beyond Yale and
UC-Irvine and so I’ve read a lot of kritical literature. I consider kritical argument as potentially a
meta-critic of affirmative philosophy or ideological underpinnings or as a form of solvency take-out
or a formally defective disadvantage (aff.. makes things worse, etc.). I have voted for “pure” kritiks
(i.e., the meta-critical argument without alts or preferred reality) and I have balloted against “pure”
critics based upon the lack of alts. Positing kritiks as a form of solvency take-out or formally
defective D/A tends to be less risky with me, but I expect to see some type of impact analysis
hopefully buttressed with evidence to allow me to evaluate it.
I also enjoy aff-side kritiks but stress the need for impact analysis and evidence to permit
proper evaluation. I also enjoy debates where the value of kritiks is joined in argument. I think too many
affirmatives respond to kritiks with questionable and risky framework arguments and some criticism
of a kritik’s position and overlook what I consider more straight-forward responses challenging the
particular kritik and the value/impact of the kritik in the particular debate round.

5. Counterplans. My standards for evaluating counterplans is still evolving. My initial position was
the traditional one: counterplans had to be 1) non-topical, 2) exclusive/competitive, 3) at least
partially solvent of aff harms, and 4) net beneficial. I now ballot on occasion for topical
counterplans, my preference is that the counterplan be exclusive/competitive in the sense that it
would be dumb to do both aff and c-plan at the same time, I expect evidence or at least extensive
analysis demonstrating at least partial solvency (I rarely buy counter-plans which merely “jack” the
aff.’s solvency evidence or analysis), and I believe I can ballot for counterplans on the net benefit
analysis so long as there is some comparative advantage to the counterplan over the aff. for at least
that portion of harm which the c-plan is supposed to solve. With that said, those burdens are on the
negative to establish at the same preponderance of evidence standard which affs assume.
I also understand the current trend of theory is to limit negatives to a single counterplan. So
long as a team can handle the theory arguments and is comfortable running the strategy, I have no
problem dealing with multiple c-plans in a given round. (Parenthetically, I don’t have problems,
either, with alternative justification affirmatives, so long as the debaters get the theory behind what
they are doing and can defend the positions).
I’m a big fan of some process-oriented c-plans such as study, study and delay, and
referendum c-plans and I commend those possible positions for your consideration.

6. Evidence. As a lawyer, and especially as a trial lawyer, I’m highly focused on the role of
evidence in debates. Accepting that the lack of foundation objection would likely be cured if speech times were increased, I remain concerned about certain sources, and necessarily the quality of evidence used in rounds. I commend to round participants setting up an evidentiary overview, evidence standards, or evidence framework
to address these issues. I don’t really want to arbitrate each piece of evidence in each round, but I
also recognize that some evidentiary sources and evidentiary tributaries are qualitatively superior to
others, and I invite debaters to explore this issue, keeping an open mind as to source and quality in
any particular round. I don’t want to invite evidence “challenges” but I want to encourage critical
thinking about the evidence used in each round, its source and the weight I should or should not give
to certain sources or types of evidence. These are fruitful and potentially determinative RFDs.

7. Concluding observations. I’m happy to discuss my RFDs in a particular round after the round
has concluded and am fairly firm as to my decisions. With the exception of the past academic year
I have sat on the panel deciding the final qualifier for NFL in the relevant district. I have not “sat
out” or dissented from an elimination round panel in the past four (4) years; I’ve “sat out” or
dissented from an elimination panel twice in the past six (6) years.
  