
  THIS ENDED UP BEING MUCH MUCH LONGER THAN I ANTICIPATED SO THERE IS A TLDR AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PAGE
 
Glenbrook North High School '17
University of Illinois '21

I debated for four years at GBN and judged throughout my tenure there. I am not very familiar with this year's topic, so I will have some difficulty in recognizing specific jargon and acronyms you might use, but I will fill you in before the round if that changes.

Top Level Things
1. I will most likely not ask for cards after the round unless you tell me to read them. 
2. Do not be racist, sexist, homophobic, etc. or you will lose. Also please do not be too much of a jerk (yes I understand that it is often your way of debating, just don't be unnecissarily rude).
3. I am not the best judge for critical arguments, just because I'm not very well versed in most of them. If you explain yourself, however, and I understand your arguments then I will have no problem voting for you if I think you won.
4. I really hate it when teams steal prep and if I notice it I will dock your speaks. This can include reading, writing, typing, talking to your partner about arguments, or basically doing anything that will help you win while there is no timer running.
5. I'm pretty laid back when it comes to computer issues and stuff like that but know that if you keep taking a lot of time I will probably get frustrated, not say anything, and let the anger boil inside until thanksgiving comes and I can eat away the stress that's been built up. You know, super laid back. 
6. You should have sent all the cards you're going to read before the round starts and in one speech doc (if one or two cards are copied into the email chain whatever, fine). If you finish early or you finish your flow early, then you can read more cards but make sure you or your partner send the new cards either during your speech or right before the next cross ex or speech starts (preferably the first, also do no use this time to steal prep since no timer is going).
7. Making the debate more enjoyable for me will probably get you much higher speaks. If you make jokes, I'll be interested. If you have specific offense, I'll be interested. Give me a reason to want to sit all day in my old highschool during thanksgiving break and listen to you.
8. Tech determines truth.
9. keep the flow clean and organized.

Topicality
I really enjoy T debates when they are nuanced and have well thought out and debated impacts (limits, etc.). I think that to win your impact in a T debate you have to explain well enough how you access your impact, that is why your definition is better for precision or predictability or whatever than the other team's.

Disads
My favorite 2nr/2ar to hear is one that delves deep into the plan and disad, has good impact calc, shows how the da and advantages affect each other, and pretty much just kicks ass at being really interesting to learn about. That said, I think specific disads are more often more powerful and more compelling than generic da's or ptx. 

Counterplans
I don't really have that much of a lean on any theory arguments. As long as you debated them better, you'll win theory. I think it does grant the neg more legitimacy when debating thoery if they have a solvency advocate, but again I really don't lean one way or the other on whether or not they should have it. It's up to you to make up my mind. Having been a 2n and debating for gbn, I have a love for counterplans and good strategies that include them.

Kritiks
Like I said, I'm less comfortable with Kritiks than other arguments, but I did run them and I won't punish you for running them either. Just make sure I know what you are talking about and try to avoid using jargon every single time you're explaining an argument. What I find helps me is when you explain what the most important words mean once, and then you can just use the jargon. I find it much more interesting and impressive when your link (in the 1nc) is specific (contextualized to the aff and not the squo) and your alt is well thought out and not generic. 

Kritikal/non-traditional affs
I'm definitely down for these, especially when they teach me something. I especially like when they are topic related. The way I see framework is all about whether or not the aff should be able to break the rules or not, and what the implications are. If you're aff has to do with race, sexism, or something else important, then I generally have a bias towards you being able breaking the rules. However, if your aff is more along the lines of Baudrillard, I'm going to lean the other way. Whatever aff you're running, know I'm very tech over truth so you're debating will decide how I vote, not my predispositions about what affs I believe are better for debate.
When going against this type of aff, I really would rather hear something other than 8 minutes of framework and 5 minutes of cap. Make the debate interesting and nuanced and I will reward you (with speaks).

Speaker Points
What makes me give you more:
1. You're funny/sarcastic
2. You're nice.
3. You love debate and are enjoying yourself. When you enjoy yourself, I enjoy myself and feel like I want to share the love.
4. You make good strategies and decisions.
5. You're clear, fast, and easy to listen to.
6. You use cross ex to advance your arguments/Cross ex answers come back in later speeches.
7. You're arguments are specific, nuanced, and evolve into much larger questions by the time the debate is over.

What makes me give you less:
1. You don't have a clear thought out plan for the debate.
2. You're not very clear.
3. You're unnecessarily rude to your partner or intrusive during their speech.
4. You're cross ex get's heated.
5. You steal prep
6. You ask a lot of cross ex questions that confirm what was in the speech, never come up in the debate, would never help you win an argument.
7. You dominate your partners cross ex.
8. You're mean/rude
9. You make the debate last way longer than it has to (you're never ready, you need to go to the bathroom right after someone comes back, none of you're emails work, etc.)
10. You seem uninterested in what you're talking about. You don't care about debate.
11. You complain in a way that makes me hate myself. I'm not saying complaining is bad. I love to complain. But don't complain about me, your partner, the other team, or anyone one who would be hurt to hear what you are saying.


TLDR:
 1. Be nice
2. tech over truth
3. I like disads the best
4. I'm not well versed on this topic
5. I'm not well versed in k lit but if you explain I'm ok
6. don't steal prep
7. don't make me hate myself
  