
  I have been a debate coach about 6 years. During that time, I have come to understand the necessary paradigms for debate.

I will accept an offense if the defense doesn't do too much of a turn on the paradigmatic weighing mechanisms of an acceptable interpretation of justice. Any value premise must be considered holistically, and not atomically. Discrete philosophical ideas have no place in LD. Don't try to introduce philosophical arguments without a thorough understainding of their impact, especially on aboriginal cultures. Aboriginal cultures present the most unique aspect of weighing a value system.

I have never met a kritik I didn't like, but if you can work an overview of David Hume into your kritik, you win my ballot.

I am a firm believer in the words of Heraclitus that "you never step into the same river twice." You never step into the same debate twice. Therefore, I expect an original analytical weltanscahuung that can provide a syntehsis of philosophical ideals with quantum mechanics. In my opinion, quantum physics are the ultimate weighing mechanism for a good LD round. Chaos theory, and the grand unification theory of physics explain the world so much better than any of the existentialist philsophers.

For me, Schleiermacher was the greatest philosopher to walk the earth, while Kant's works are good for nothing other than paper training your puppy. Try to work Schleiermacher's semtioic secretism into your overviews, and i will be pleased.

For top of the flow arguments, I carefully count the number of words you use. If your top of the flow arguments are not at least 1230 words, you don't really have a top of the flow argument.

As for speed, I can take it as fast as you can give it, but if you go fewer than 10 words a minute, you are almost guarnteed my ballot.

In short, I beleive that my paradigm should be paradigmatic of Lincoln Douglas Debate. Be clear, while still bringing abstruse argumetns into the round. Have staistics that can be theorized. Present philosophers, but be sure that you can show how their philosophies can fit into a quantum worldview. Be a student of history, but be sure that you analyze that history instinctually. That, to me, is the essence of Lincoln Douglas Debate.
  