
  I am the forensic adviser at Saint Ignatius high school in Cleveland, Ohio. I was a competitor in policy debate and have been a coach for more than 40 years. My judging experience includes mostly state, national and the TOC circuit. I have had several state championships in policy debate, championship speakers and respectable runs at the TOC tournament qualifiers over the years.

I prefer to allow the debate to evolve at the direction of the teams and will listen to most any arguments that are substantiated with logic, reasoning, evidence...you know, debate.

I tend to be tabula rasa, do not follow "open" cross-x, become upset over angry, abusive conduct between debaters but will listen to reason. I seldom ask to see evidence unless it is absolutely critical to the decision...brought up by both teams and blatantly contradictory. I will NOT re-run the round like I think it should have gone but only on what the teams say in the round. kritics are okay especially if they are really developed, carefully crafted and debated throughout the round. I think camps are fun places for people to go and explore new ideas and use as a base building for the season but not doing updates or really knowing what is said in cards/briefs is inexcusable.

Debate should be fun, educational and enriching. I do not debate the debaters in round or after the round and I will offer comments but not engage in debate over the decision.

In the past several years the tendency is for some people to enter Policy debate tournaments having chosen not debate policy topics but to debate the merits of the activity, and/or any other societal ills perceived or real. While these may be admiral goals and topics for Lincoln Douglas, Public Forum, Original Oratory, Expository or Dramatic Interpretation or philosophy gatherings and competitions, I will not be bullied, screamed at or insulted into making a policy debate decision based on an individuals' gender, race, religion, social status or other sociometric characteristic.
  