
  Judge Philosophy

It's rather simple actually, the round is completely under your control. Make it whatever you want, every speech is a performance of some kind so whether you sing, dance, strip, or just stand and speak as long as you don't make the round uncomfortable or unsafe for any other persxn I'll listen to what you have to say.

I will call clear or slow or loud or whatever I want from you IF YOU ASK ME TO BEFORE THE ROUND BEGINS. I would prefer to just raise my hand if you are unclear (which is usually the main problem with my understanding) but I can do my best to accommodate your persxnal style.

On that note, I have horrible hearing so it would probably be in your best interest to speak louder than usual, as well you should slow down and accentuate taglines, I've either cut or read or heard most of the cards you'll be reading so the text is easier to follow but analytics should be read significantly slower than the text of cards

I did a lot more kritikal debate in high school, although I read very little high theory in round, I've done enough reading that most continental philosophy won't shoot straight over my head, but it would be nice if you slow down on tag lines even more than usual.

As far as T/Theory goes, most of you who know me would expect me to say I hate it all the time but really it can create some of the most interesting conversations if done well, that being said if you are reading either against someone who very clearly does not understand how to respond technically it will be an uphill battle for you, I will be very receptive to responses that may be less technical and I may decide to tank your speaks.

I can't give you a set scale for speaks because I don't think they make any sense, so instead I'll tell you that if you want a 30 in front of me just be flawless (that means be nice, funny, proficient, and responsive) and don't be annoying (that means being unclear without reason, spreading needlessly, using ridiculous jargon that is unnecessary, being mean or rude, etc.) the more annoying and less flawless you are the lower your speaks go, makes sense?

IMPORTANT NOTE
If you are debating someone who is clearly less experienced than you are, I expect the round to change accordingly; don't spread if you know they can't follow speed or if you know you don't need to, don't use hyperspecific jargon knowing they wont understand it, if you're going for t/theory/K read it so a kindergartner could understand (if you can do this, I will be very impressed and it will reflect in your speaks, if you try and fail it will conversely reflect in your speaks). Failure to do these things will result in me being incredibly mean and rude to you forever and I'll tank your speaks, so be nice to newbies or else.
  