
  I debated at Loyola Blakefield and graduated in 2012. I debated on the national circuit, qualling to ToC my junior and senior year.

Do whatever you want. Try not to make the other person too uncomfortable. Go for the optimal strategy.

I'm not amazing at flowing. Signpost clearly or I'll have problems getting down your arguments.

I'm not a skep hack...I ran it at ToC my senior year and not much before that. When I say "do whatever you want," that doesn't mean "you must run skep."

Be funny, interesting, and/or witty. I give higher speaks when you aren't boring me.

If you don't define exactly what your idea of "competing interpretations" or "reasonability" means when you run a theory shell, I can pretty much guarantee that I'll disagree with you when I give my RFD. Make an argument for what it means.





Alright so I'm going to go on a bit of a rant here. If you don't have time, don't worry too much about it since it doesn't affect my judging much, but it could be useful for future rounds or being a good person in general:

Keep in mind that the things that you say actually affect other people. In my mind, it's totally fine to run something like skepticism, because I personally think it's probably true, but also because I think that debate should be open to all forms of ideas. That said, you can run these sorts of things in good ways or bad ways. Just because you're running an argument that denies the existence of morality doesn't mean you have to tell someone that any bad thing that happened in their life was okay, or that it wasn't a bad thing. People come up with their own rules that aren't objective and whatnot, and even absent those, one still doesn't have to make those claims. Likewise, if someone is running an argument like that against you, don't try to steer the conversation into uncomfortable terrain to try and make them sound offensive. Don't say "oh, so then can I do [insert horrible, unimaginable thing] to you right now ?" Keep in mind that your opponent, or your judge, or someone in the audience might have dealt with that in the past, and maybe, just maybe, you trying to make someone seem like an asshole isn't worth forcing someone to relive something they've been through, or make then uncomfortable. When you run an argument, remember that it has effects on other people.
  