
  I was in the forensics team for 3 years at CSUN. I fell in love with policy debate after I spontaneously decided to give it a try. Since my undergrad years have come to an end along with my time in debate as a competitor, I judge as much as I can because I actually enjoy watching y'all.

As for my “preferences” for neg strats and affs, well I have no preference. I will evaluate anything. I will always vote for the team that did the better debating.


Framework
I wouldn't mind hearing a debate about how we should interpret debate. Make it a good one. It shows great competence if you answer framework on the spot and steal my heart and mind. I like to see quality evidence that supports your interpretation of debate. Give a good explanation of the impacts you set for your framework. I evaluate competing framework arguments by how much sense they make, and how nuanced each team counters their opponent's framework. I am sympathetic to both sides of the framework debate if it has to do with performance Ks.

Topicality
Do not have a topicality debate and not make a good voter. Give me a really good reason to vote for T by making good arguments. Tell me why we need to have standards and why we need to follow them. Don't just say that they don't meet the standards.How do those standards provide a fair division of ground? Why should I not vote for them because of those violations? Any argument that I will vote for has to be well impacted.

CP
If you go for this, make sure you prove that you have the net benefit (see below). I expect a lot from the negative when it comes to the permutation debate. I also expect a lot regarding your answers to any theory (see way below). 

DA
I would like to hear a story. Give me the whole story that proves how it turns their case. Prove to me that your disad outweighs their case. I enjoy any kind of politics disad. Win all parts of the it. At the end of the round, it would be easier for me to make a decision if I hear a detailed analysis and impact calculus.

K
I enjoy critical debate like any of the other conventional off case arguments, but you have to make perfect sense to me. I read philosophy but I do not limit my recreational reading to philosophy. Regardless of whether I am familiar with the authors or not, I expect a good explanation of the arguments. Also, the most important part of the K is the alt. I have to understand what the alt is if I’m going to vote for it. I like to see specific links to affs. Any generic links would be an uphill battle unless it gets completely and obviously dropped. 

Performance, K Affs
I said would evaluate anything. I wasn't lying. Just make sure to give me a good reason to give you the ballot. Provide a good explanation of your framework. I also like to see these answered by something other than T or FW (but I wouldn't mind hearing those as long as they are nuanced explanations). I appreciate a neg strat that actually contests these arguments as opposed to claiming that they do not belong in this sport (but if that's all you've got, you will get rewarded if you do it right and very well, see framework up top). The role of the ballot is a debate that you should never let go at any point in the debate.

Theory
These arguments would be great. It makes me think more and I like challenging round decisions. Don't make them for the sake of making additional arguments. Make the right theory arguments if you expect me to give it more weight. Questions of whether vagueness, conditionality, agents, or anything else is fair is all debatable. Everything is debatable. 

*In case you want to ask me if I zone out during cross examination, THE ANSWER IS NO. I pay attention and YOUR SPEAKER POINTS WILL BE AFFECTED BY WHAT YOU DO OR SAY. I enjoy watching snarky and condescending personalities, but please keep it away from this sport. Respect your opponents and colleagues while you're in front of me. Unless you really feel like it would help me buy your arguments. Being a smart ass doesn't always get you what you want in life.

*Remember to have fun with it.

***If you have any questions, or if you're curious about a decision I made or why I gave you low speaker points, please feel free to keep your opinions to yourselves. Just kidding. My email is: iracaminong@gmail.com
  