
  I graduated in 2004 from Highland Park High School in Minnesota. I was a circuit debater and made it to the bump round at the TOC and cleared at Nationals my senior year. After graduation I coached for Saint Louis Park, Minnesota for a few years and did a bit of camp work. Since I graduated from high school some time ago, and have not been super active in debate my technical skills are not what they once were, and I cannot flow top circuit speed. At the same time I do not mind moderate-high speed, and will say "clear" if you are mush-mouthing too much to be understood or just going to fast for me to flow. I truly try my best to be a blank slate - so run whatever you want and run it however you see fit. I will vote for anything and have no particular taste for or against theory or K or anything else you may way want to run. I am also very open-minded stylistically and have given 30 and 20s to fast circuit debaters and slower but more strategic debaters alike. No matter what my personal opinion on an argument may be I will vote for it, though I may tank your speaker points if you really annoy me (by running dense philosophy you clearly do not understand and cannot explain or forcing me to vote on something that is obviously stupid or something similarly obnoxious). I also tank speaker points for tardiness, and am grumpy and easily annoyed by anything that delays the tournament - since delays caused by debaters prevent the tab room from keeping the tournament on schedule. When I was a debater I was late to rounds because I was socializing with friends, or getting prepped out by my coaches. I don't think I was ever once substantially late for a legitimate (unavoidable emergency) reason even though I debated every weekend of the season for four years. Therefore, I get grumpy whenever debaters are late or otherwise delay the round and I start shaving speaker points very quickly. The rule of thumb I have adopted is that I clip a speaker point for every minute of lateness starting with the 5th. I also do not give debaters extra time to sit around pre-flowing when the round's start time has arrived. You can pre-flow during your prep time - or you can do it while they are setting up pairings - I will not sit around watching a high-school kid take notes on their case when the round was supposed to have started. I also refuse to allow debaters to use their prep time and then, with no clocks running, sit around "flashing" cases and arguments back and forth or doing other preparatory activities that I require to be done during "prep" time or not at all.
  