
  Dave Canarie
South Portland High School
South Portland, ME
Judging Paradigm, 2012-13 Season


 Background

--Former high school and college policy debater; former college policy coach.

--LD coach at South Portland HS for 5 years; judged > 50 rounds last year.

--Practicing attorney who teaches a college course on business law.

Preferences: LD Debate

I am open to virtually any well-reasoned argument. The only general constraint is that the debate has to take place within the context of the resolution. In the absence of any tournament-specific rules, or persuasion to the contrary in a round, I generally subscribe to the NFL guidance that there can be no plans or counter plans in LD debate.

I prefer debates that feature high quality evidence, analysis, clash and extensions. I will ask to evidence after a round if I feel it important in deciding the round. Weak or inadequately-cited evidence will carry little weight with me. I am OK with theory and kritiks, but please note: I don’t teach at summer institutes and am not an expert on these so go a little easy on speed and communicative shorthands when you are arguing theory or kritiks before me.

Remember that speed is not an end in itself and you should be sure not to speak above your fluency/persuasion threshold. If I can’t understand you, I will say: “clear.” Please respond accordingly.

A related point: not all words in a debate are created equal. I find it helpful when debaters emphasize (through changes in cadence, volume, tone or speed) their key cards or arguments rather than giving them the same emphasis as, say, a generic transition phrase in their speech. 

Organization is important as well. I find it really helpful when debaters let me know where they are going before they start a speech and are clear where they are during the speech. Random, unannounced, hopping-around-the-flow in a debate is annoying and very difficult for me to manage as a judge.

In the absence of tournament rules specifically authorizing flex-prep, I do not like flex-prep in my rounds. I prefer that debaters keep time. 

Courtesy toward opponents is a must. Rudeness or bad manners = low speaks.

 Final Thoughts

I'd be happy to answer any questions you have before the round. If tournament rules permit disclosure of decisions I will disclose my decision.

I hope you have a successful and enjoyable season. Have fun and be sure to appreciate the great opportunity you have to participate in forensics.
  