
  I'm a second year at ASU and a member of the policy team, I did LD all four years of high school on both the local Maine circuit and the national circuit.
 
 Arguments
 I'll listen to just about everything (see caveats at bottom for exceptions). I've been trained as a K debater, so I'm more of a K hack than the rest of the ASU team. That doesn't mean I won't vote on a policy argument; I'll vote for the team whomever wins their arguments. I probably am predisposed to K's, but that doesn't mean you should run them if you're not comfortable with them or just love policy arguments. You shouldn't run a K that you don't understand just because I'm judging; I'd much rather you understand your arguments than read flashy ones and have you understand 0% of the words coming out of your mouth. Debate how you want to debate--I'll follow.

This is more LD specific, but applies to policy as well, time-suck theory makes for bad debates. If there’s actually a violation, run theory; otherwise don’t because you’ll sound like a four year old throwing a tantrum because the rules to Candy Land aren’t the way you want them to be.

Really whatever floats your boat. All types of argumentation are cool in their own way. It’s your debate, have some fun. I’ll vote on whatever issues you tell me to vote on, so make sure to extend warrants and impacts not just tags.

Things That Will Bum Me Out
 You’re an ass to your opponent. You’re an ass to me. You say sexist/racist/derogatory/generally horrible things. This doesn’t mean that you can’t be sassy. In fact, I love a bit of sass to spice up the round, but being rude bums me out. If you make me sad your speaks will show it.
Speaks
 Debate well, get good speaks. Swearing is fine as long as you’re not gross about it. I won’t be stingy with speaks unless you bum me out, which you shouldn’t because you’re probably a lovely individual.
Speed
 Don’t talk faster than you can be clear. I can flow just about any speed, as long as you’re clear. I’ll say clear twice, and if I still can’t understand you, I’ll stop flowing. It’s honestly better for me to understand you and you not get as many cards read than for you to read 82307589237 cards and sound like a dying hyena while doing it.
Other
 Be on time. You may ask clarifying questions in prep, but I'm not a fan of flex prep. If you have any more questions, ask away. Hopefully you're debating because you love the activity, because that makes it more fun for everyone.
Caveats
 Things that will result in a speaks tank and an auto drop:
Arguing rape goodArguing sexism goodArguing racing goodI think as debaters we often forget there are real-world implications to arguments, especially in these types of situations. I will also find your coach and have a serious discussion with her/him/hir.

I'm a feminist, I enjoy puns, and love long walks on the beach.
  