
  If you're Finnish, W30.

If you're doing prefs for Stanford 2014 -- I have not judged VLD since Stanford 2013. I've coached and been around debate some since, but not heavily at all. Please keep this in mind when doing your prefs. Thanks! 

I debated for Byram Hills High School in Armonk, NY for four years, competed frequently on the national circuit during the last two and qualified to and attended TOC as a senior. I'm currently a freshman at Stanford University studying Theatre, History and Education.

Conflicts: Byram Hills High School, Sammamish High School and Fiorello LaGuardia High School

I always wanted to put something really cool in my paradigm like Charles Chy's 'if you bring me food, I'll raise your speaks,' but unfortunately this is going to be pretty bland. I will try to be as tabula rasa as possible and evaluate the round as you tell me to. I have detailed potential biases below for the sake of full disclosure.

Theory
I really enjoy theory debates and wish I had initiated them more as a debater. I will listen to paragraph theory, but would prefer structure. I will default to competing interpretations unless you tell me otherwise. Please don't be blippy and remember to weigh. I will evaluate RVIs like all other arguments. I really enjoy good theory debates, so I'll give higher speaks if you execute them well. That said, don't go for it if you don't think you can.

Speed

Since I haven't been in a circuit debate round for a few months, if you are a high-level, high-speed debater, you may want to go a little slower than usual. That said, if you don't consider yourself among the fastest debaters in the country, then speak however you normally would in rounds, but remember to slow down slightly for tags and authors. I'll let you know once if it's too fast. If you have yet to develop your speed, please don't feel pressured to be super fast.

Philosophy

I was primarily a framework debater, so I'm happy to listen to and evaluate philosophically dense debates. Be aware that circuit trends change from year to year, so please don't assume that I'll know how you want something to function unless you explain it. I was not a util debater, but I think those debates are often easier to evaluate, so I don't have any biases there.

Ks/Narratives/Other "Weird" Stuff
I didn't run them, but am happy to listen to them so long as you give a clear ballot story. Please don't assume that I will automatically understand kritik lit without solid tags and explanations. I am not the most familiar with it and find that some debaters tend to rely on its density to win rounds--please don't.

Micro-political Positions
Similar to my thoughts on the above category, I will listen to these positions like any others. I am happy to vote on these types of impacts if you win them. That said, don't presume that because I am a woman, for example, I am more inclined than other judges to vote for feminist-based positions.

Speaks
My guess is that I will be a bit of a speaks fairy, at least until I figure out my own scale. I won't give below a 26 unless you do something completely outrageous/rude/dangerous in the round. I don't think of 30s as reserved for the single best debater I've seen, but I will be very sparing with them. I will dock speaks if you make offensive or derogatory remarks in round. I feel that it's my obligation as an 'adult' in the community to help make sure that it is a welcoming and inclusive environment.

To get good speaks:

1. Weigh
2. Don't make blippy arguments
3. Be efficient and organized in your speeches
4. Weigh some more
5. Give me a clear ballot story
6. Remember to weigh

That's all! Feel free to contact me if you have any questions -- sammi.cannold@stanford.edu. :)
  