
  Erin Carley
Samford University

Background:
I Debated Policy in the Chicago Debate League for 4 years. I’m currently a Policy debater at Samford University. In other words, I feel like I’m a pretty policy competent judge. I will refrain from updating my Facebook status in a round, and I won’t disappear for long periods of time during prep. I won’t sleep in the round and most importantly, I do flow! To make it easier I will separate debate arguments into three categories: Things I like, Things I’m open to, and things I never ever want to see. Things I never want to see:Agent Spec... Any Spec.You run it, I will dock speaks.  Things I’m open to: The K: I’m not a hardcore K debater, but I can appreciate it IF it is run correctly. Which means, if you aren’t one hundred percent confident that you can execute a k ( Answer arguments, articulate the k implications in regards to the round, explain why the k is uniquely key offense for you, and stay ahead of the framework debate) don’t run the K unless you plan on kicking it (CORRECTLY) in the block. Same goes for Critical Aff’s. If you can’t explain it, don’t run it. If you are aff, answer the K. Non-Traditional Arguments: I’m not really a fan, but I will listen to it and vote on it if I have to. Same rules apply, if you can’t explain it don’t run it. Things I like: Disads: love a disad with a super tight link to the aff and probable impact. If you can keep up with the arguments on the flow, and explain the disad so that I know you aren’t a robot reading cards your coach cut for you, I will most likely vote your way. On the aff, if you can poke holes in the disad and explain why it has nothing to do with you, I will vote aff. CP’s: CP’s are fine. Run them with a net benefit and explain why it is better than the aff or if aff, explain why the CP is an awful alternative to the plan. Topicality: If you’re going to go for the T, grow a pair and go for it. Spend more than four minutes in the block if you want me to evaluate it seriously. I DO NOT want to hear four minutes of “THEY ARE NOT TOPICAL,” I will make fun of you at the end of the round. Extend standards, and really explain the abuse. Case: Don’t drop case unless you are going for good turns or an add on. If you are aff, this is very important. Impact Calc needs to always be in the round on both the aff and the neg.  Theory: Condo, vagueness, intrisicness, and severance are all fine will me. Same standards set for T apply to theory. My threshold is really high. You as a Debater:You are not an idiot… I hope, therefor I want you to speak loudly, and clearly as if you wrote the evidence you are presenting to me. Be respectful to your opponents and partner. I will dock speaks for being a jerk. I don’t like it, and it doesn’t help your ethos or you as a person. You are not adults; therefor STRONG language is not acceptable. I like jokes, but any jokes about the Packers or race and I will vote you down. No question. I do not want to do any work, I’m lazy. WRITE MY BALLOT FOR ME. I do not want to intervene and make calls and create an interpretation based on what your evidence says, if I have to, NO ONE will be happy. Keep up on the flow, extend arguments, call shenanigans, point out dropped arguments… Show me that you have a brain. Use prep and cross ex efficiently. Watch me as you debate, make eye contact. If you my pen is down I’m not flowing you because I don’t understand a word you are saying. I will yell clear but after the third time, you’re on your own and if I don’t catch the argument, I feel bad for you. If I look confused, I have no idea where you are going with the argument. If I am giving you the death stare, one of three things: You are being a jerk, I think your annoying, or im thinking really hard. Good luck figuring out which is which. Make smart arguments ( Perms, no links, no impacts, etc) Use all of your speech time, if you don’t, you better be 100 percent confident that you have covered all the arguments on the flow. If I vote you down, and you didn’t use all of you speech time, you will have no room to complain. You had a fair chance to win the debate.  BTW: No Nudity
  