
  Background: I competed in LD, Congress, & Extemp at St. Thomas More in Louisiana. I have competed at NCFL, & NSDA (Double Octas in WSD 2015)

Buddy, let's talk....

LD
In the fashion of one of my favorite judges on the circuit I competed on, "I am a strict LD Constructionist. What does that mean? I like a clear value that links back into a value criterion."
I can love critical arguments, but I am very concerned about these. So, if these are your only positions here's how you win rounds in front of me:
1.) You have to convince me that you are sincere and are not just trying to pick up ballots. That means not engaging in a round of "Oppression Olympics". If I get that impression, I will probably be really disappointed in you.
2.) Know what you're running. My best friend put it perfectly at the Glenbrooks Tournament of 2014, "I'm 1-3 because I don't know *Wilderson*." I know the lit... You should know it too... Your goal is to educate me.
3.) Give me some type of mechanism to evaluate your arguments. (ROB)

Speaker Points
I am disgusted by the fact that there is no clear definition of how judges should use speaker points. As for me, speaks will be determined by your presentation. (Low point wins are possible) and I'll start at 28 and work my way up or down. You can sit, but not wearing shoes or a shirt is frowned upon.

Framework- I LOVE a heavy FW debate. FW clash makes me happy. 

Speed- I don't like speed. I will not say "clear". I've also been out of practice for a bit, so the slower the better. Educate me.  Imagine if your teacher spread a lecture and you weren't allowed to ask questions immediately afterwards. That's what it's like being a judge. 

Clash- Don't run away from arguments. Educate me. Running away from them is frowned upon.

Voters- I like those. I frown upon debaters with no voters.

Theory- It is frowned upon.

Extensions- I like those. A lack thereof will be frowned upon.

Ks- I love them, but running them without consulting me before round or this paradigm shall be frowned upon.

Flex Prep- Must be agreed upon before round. Stealing prep or going over the amount of time given will be frowned upon.

Roadmaps/ signpost- Imagine you are on a debate trip and there are no signs to indicate where to go. Sounds like a really bad time. Well, these tools are how I know where you are going. You will be frowned upon with no road maps or signposts.

Final Word: Education.. Debate made me a better person through education and competition (although some would argue otherwise). Most of all... Buddy, Have fun! Always leave the room with a story to tell.

*I do not hack for Wilderson.*
  