
  I debated in LD for Law Magnet in Dallas, Texas and I graduated in 2015. I am currently a Junior at the University of Texas in Dallas. As a debater, I attended camp each year and I competed at a couple of TOC tournament, but I mostly stayed in the TFA circuit, and I qualified to TFA state my senior year. This past summer I also taught at the Texas Debate Collective.


There is no argument I will not vote on if I can comprehend the argument. Speed is fine but please slow down on tags, authors, and role of the ballot text, interps, and analytics. 


Again, I will vote on any argument so the following are just preferences or small things to know about me in relationship to these debates:


Theory: I am familiar with theory, but this debate will require you to slow down more than others for me to vote on it. I don’t care if you run it for strategic purposes, you just need to articulate it at a speed that I can comprehend. I presume competing interpretations, fairness and education are voters, RVIs, and drop the debater if nothing else is specified and a theory debate is engaged. 


Framework: I prefer a good nuanced framework debate. I don’t have a predisposition to the literature base of certain philosophy’s. I’ll listen to your Kant NC, Util framework, or heavy K/oppression framework.


Ks: I’ll evaluate K’s like any other argument. The only thing I’ve noticed that gets to me on the K layer is if you run a K, I want the link to that K to be strong and meaningful not just one of those "they didn't mention x group, so they're being exclusive". If you are going for a pure link of omission, I need to be compelled enough to believe that x group is detrimental to the round and a necessary component of the topic.


Blackness and queer arguments are excellent examples of what I like to see on the K flow but you can run whatever critical arguments you desire. 


Plans/CPs/DAs: If you want to engage in a more policy oriented style of debate, this is fine. Link your impacts to a framework and don’t assume I’ll know your specific jargon so always err on over explaining of the function of arguments. 


Feel free to ask me any questions before the round for more details.
  