
  Matthew Carswell
UT Dallas 11
Crosby HS ‘7

I guess before you start reading how i view things i should tell you some of my background. I debated 3 years at Crosby HS, qualified for NFL twice (finished 10th my senior year), qualified for the TOC, and both UIL (winning my senior year) and TFA state. I now debate at UTD.

I will evaluate anything you present me in the round. Whether it’s a kritik, a Counterplan, or just going for case debate, whatever the debaters wish to make the major issue(s) in the round. Speed is fine with me, if I can’t understand what your saying I’ll yell to be clear and hopefully you’ll respond.

Kritiks- But saying that, I feel that I need to warn some of you on the issue of kritiks. I am not as educated in the literature as I wish I was. When I debated in high school I ran mostly policy arguments (Counterplan + da) thus I did not really dabble in that literature as much. That is not to say that I won’t vote on a K (whether aff or neg) just that I will need a lot of explanation on it. I need to have solid impact calculus and a good explanation of the alternative. If I feel that you are doing that, then you will have no problem.

Counterplans- Counterplans are fine as long as the negative can present a solid net benefit and can solve at least some of the AFF.

DA- also fine, just must have impact calculus.

T- I am a tad more hesitant to pull the trigger on topicality. I view topicality in an offense/defense paradigm. I generally believe that reasonability solves most offense that the negative has. Now saying that, I will vote on T if I feel the negative has out debated the aff on it, or if they can prove a substantial amount of abuse (either potentially or actually in the round).

Case debate- is fine, but if only going for it, there must be some offense mixed in with the usual defensive arguments (ie. Turns)

Theory- Will pull the trigger on theory if either side can impact it properly and prove a substantial amount of abuse. One thing I do need to say on theory though is this, I don't like blimpy 2AC theory args such as "condo bad - destroys education - voter, next", then blowing it up in the 1AR with all kinds of new warrants and such. I generally give more weight to the negative in those type of theory debates.

Other things that add to your speaker points- be funny and have fun with it. Tense rounds really suck to be in and can be really awkward for all, so crack some jokes, and be nice to each other. Its all about having fun in my eyes. Also references to the Simpsons or Twin Peaks will raise points under any circumstance.

Ok if you have anymore questions just ask before the round and I'll try to clarify better.
  