
  BIO
I did four years of debate in high school, my main debate style was LD. I competed at national circuit tournaments, went to nationals twice, state five times, and won state my senior year. This is not so much as to boast, but more to tell you that I'm well versed and I know what I'm doing. Im generally an outgoing and pleasant person.
GENERAL JUDGING PHILOSOPHY 
In LD I evaluate framework and casework equally at 50-50. Other than that Ill adapt to your debate style, I don't think its fair to as you to adapt to mine. In general I can handle anything you throw at me just keep it relatively reasonable (more on that later). I tend to also prefer dehum and oppression impacts over impacts like econ, but that should be self explanatory.
SPEAKS 
20-25 BELOW AVERAGE
26-27 AVERAGE
28-29 ABOVE AVERAGE
30 RIDICULOUSLY GOOD
SPECIFICS

Speed- I can handle ANY speed, just make sure its clear and you pronounce your taglines.
K’s- I love K’s, and I love listening to them as long as they are actually applicable and have some sort of real world solvency. Just running a K to run a K defeats the purpose of a K.
Narratives- I ran a lot of narratives when I debated so I am familiar, Im happy to listen to narratives as long as they are done well and give me some sort of ROB.
CP’s and Advocacies- Fine, just like I said before, do it well, I hate sloppy advocacies and CP’s.
Theory- I think theory is necessary in debate to check rules violations and that it should be used as such. Don't overuse theory, try only to run it if there is a legitimate violation, but ill listen to any theory anyways it just may not be weighed as heavily if its BS.
ROB- I really appreciate ROB’s, it makes it easier for me as a judge, but don't feel pressured to have one.
Values- I personally think Values are a slight relic of the past and aren't really necessary, but if you choose to use them make sure they are upheld by your case and that they aren't too nebulous.
Criteria- I weigh criteria heavily and think your criteria should be warranted and upheld throughout the round, if you show me why your opponents criteria helps you then even better. Basically don't drop voting criteria or it could be as close to an auto loss as you can get.
If there are any other specific questions feel free to as them in round and I will answer honestly.
  