
  Philosophy for Andy Casey
Andy Casey 
University of North Texas/The Heritage Hall School 
Philosophy entered 9/7/2011

With the more that time goes by the more I understand my own peculiarities that I have with debate. These do have an effect on the way I judge. I’ve really tried to pursue being an open book with respect to each debate, and not bring in my biases. I will still attempt this while judging. I try every debate to divorce my judging from my personal politics, sometimes this is hard to do. My belief about debate is simple, if you can’t adequately defend why genocide is bad then you aren’t being a good advocate of your cause and don’t deserve to win*
With that being said, here are some things I’ve gathered about my view of debate and judging, meta-level first:

1 – I tend to think of debate more holistically instead of as a question of mere technical drops. I tend to understand 1ac’s according to their overall philosophy and less as just a function of voting for a plan. This is not to say I have a bias for or against realism, or neoconservatism, or liberalism, or neoliberalism or whatever. It is just how I understand the aff in relationship to debate and what I am voting for. This does not mean I seek the truth when I am judging, it just means I tend to privilege more overarching questions instead of smaller debating techniques.

2 – it will be very difficult to convince me that the aff should be allowed to sever any part of the 1ac. It is just more logical for me to accept a theory argument as a reason to reject a counterplan or an alternative than to justify why the aff should get to sever something. To me, severance of the 1ac is the base level of what qualifies as dumb argumentation.

3 – I try really hard at judging. Sometimes I mess stuff up, and I usually end up thinking about it for weeks. I presume that debaters work really hard at whatever argument they are going for, so I will try really hard for them. When I debated, I often tried to undertake what I thought were complicated critical strategies and had trouble making people stay open to them or effectively be able to communicate them to people. Admittedly, I don’t read a lot of stuff about conventional “policy” strategies for fun. Sometimes, this means I am unfamiliar with a literature base. With that being said, when I don’t understand something and I think that it hampers my ability to judge, I go and try to read about that issue or subject so I can judge better for it next time.

4 – a lot of the practices we have are arbitrary – that doesn’t mean they are necessarily bad, but that doesn’t mean they qualify as automatically good if questioned. This isn’t me being judgmental, I sometimes am unaware of my own arbitrariness from time to time. Try not to presume that everything is a given, if a practice of yours is questioned then defend the practice with more than “that’s dumb, welcome to policy debate” as it is entirely possible I may not agree with you or know where you are coming from.

5 – I like good debate –are you impact turning everything in sight, deploying a pic to every possible plan, disad/case, a big T debate? Yea, go for it, I’ll like it if its good debate. focus on ontology outweighs death, questions of identity, exclusionary debate practices? Do it, if its good debate, I’ll like it. 

6 – I try my best to only evaluate scenarios explicitly told to evaluate by the 2nr/2ar. Even if statements are very important for allowing me to conceive of other scenarios to evaluate; sometimes intervention could happen if these don’t get played out by the debaters (and I try extremely hard to avoid intervening).

I try not to have biases about types of arguments or styles of debating. Here are some more specific thoughts:

Topicality: I used to prefer reasonability. The more that time flies by the more I realize that I don’t know the difference between reasonability and competing interpretations. Everyone has an interpretation and it is a measure of which one I think is better. If you don’t have an interpretation… well, as they say to me constantly on my last hand at the table “Good luck all in.” In this case, I will assume your interpretation is the opposite of the other team’s interpretation. If you are debating a framework argument about what should be admissible in the debate and fail to make a counterinterpretation, I’ll assume that everything is admissible. Like almost every judge ever, I’ve been more persuaded by contextual exclusive/inclusive definitions. With that being said, once or twice I’ve been persuaded by analytic interpretations of the topic over carded ones because one just made more sense to me (and probably also because the cards were garbage). A topical version of the aff (that makes sense) has been devastating. One last caveat, I think we limit topics way too much. This isn’t to say limits/predictability hasn’t seemed to be important to me but if placed against a more important form of education that may require some expanded limits I seem to vote aff more times than not. 

Framework: I was in a lot of these debates. I used to dislike them, now I just don’t care. There are two important framework debates: theoretical framework and impact framework. With those wondering about my view on running theory framework against K aff’s see my section above on T (because I think this is a T argument). I used to say that affs shouldn’t go for framework against the neg k, that it was a nonstarter for me. I still agree that it is not the best answer to the K (as I don’t really think it is offense) and would prefer you defend your aff, its philosophical base, and your impact framing. I would prefer a middle ground be reached about the framework for how to interpret the aff case and the neg k, if it is not possible, I will still adjudicate the framework debate to the best of my ability. My only wish is that the debating being done is good debate.
Counterplans: offense/defense has been how I view it, but from time to time if I don’t think there is a net benefit worth the words I type… I have needed no offense from the aff. “certainty” based standards of competition have been unpersuasive to me more often than not. I have voted on conditionality bad before but if everything is evened up on both sides in terms of the debate the neg basically has won without hesitation. With that being said, don’t assume that I am the best for counterplan theory debates, not saying not to make it or go for it, I am just saying often it involves a higher detail of explanation than for most critics.

Disads: My confidence judging these debates has gone up a lot in the last year. I am getting a lot more comfortable judging them. One thing I will say is this, for some reason it takes me a little bit more time to process information when judging these. As the debate progresses I always pick up on everything crucial, but for some reason it just takes longer for me to process a debate like this. Two things will be helpful: 1 - slow down a little extra on certain tags/thesis arguments for the disad/cp, itll do wonders for you later in the debate. And 2 – if there is paperless going around and a jump drive moving along…. Let me in on it. It may seem odd and someone may have an issue, but I don’t really give a shit, if I get to see the debate as its going I’ll have a lot better feedback for everyone involved in this type of debate, my decisions will go faster, and there will be decreased possibilities for error. 

Kritiks: admittedly, I know more about these than basically any of the above sections. That doesn’t mean I’ve been a better judge for them, it just meant that you’ve gotten more helpful feedback post-round if this is the type of debate. It also means my trigger is pretty quick with deciding who won/lost and I generally don’t have to read much evidence. Specific links with specific stories have gotten the higher points and the wins. My standards for evidence have also been a little bit higher in these debates on both sides (not in terms of quals, but rather warrants/highlighting). Despite what you may think, I’m less impressed with running to the fringe of the politico-debate spectrum than I am with just picking an argument and beating someone. I was always more of a fan of picking a K that impact turned an aff than a deferral strategy. Not that I won’t listen obviously (but I’ll show my respect in varied ways to one over the other). 

K theory – people tell me I am really easy on negs in terms of what they can make their K’s do. I’ll concede this probably isn’t too far off, but I am not a fan of shadiness and hiding your argument. I think its faulty to legislate that all alternatives should do “x” or only be able to defend “y”. If your literature base has the possibility to include plan-inclusive action – so be it, but don’t lie to me and don’t hide that you want to do a part of the plan. I have a pretty good pulse on when people are being shady with the K, if I think you’re doing it, I don’t mind rejecting the alt on theory. 

Paperless: Prep stops when the speech is saved to the flash drive. 

Personality: I’m a pretty happy person. Sometimes I have a messed up sense of humor. If I am laughing during your speech, don’t think too hard into it, it could be anything. I’m hard to offend; but the few areas where it is possible to offend me, well it sucks for anyone around me. Sometimes I get excited during decisions, generally I’m not mad. I’ve been around Louie Petit too much, it makes my arguing kind of aggressive (not trying to be imposing, or loud, or condescending, or mean) often times I also change my mind mid-sentence. It’s just how I process things. The reason I am telling you this is because generally it is hard for me to dislike people, I am more or less kind of amused by people. I ask questions to other judges when I am on a panel, 95% of the time I am not questioning their decision, I’m just trying to learn something.

 Buyer beware, 
-AC 

 *This statement was first made by Calum Matheson as far as I can remember. My example is rd 8 of the NDT 2010 where a team ran a Vine Deloria/Kato aff about nuclear waste dumping and I voted negative that instead of aiding those victimized by colonial pollution we should rather wait for the Christian God to sort it out. “Eschatological prayer is a better method than my speaking out against waste dumping” was my RFD. The aff team was not a good advocate of their cause. 
clearly the caveat for what is good debate is subjective to what I feel. If you’ve done this for a while, you know what I mean.
  