
  Jared CassarlyWooster High School 2016Case Western Reserve University 2020 (Computer Science)

General:
I don't really care what you run as long as you explain it well. Tell me how to frame/view the round and you can get my ballot. I am tabula rasa. If you do not give me a specific way to view the round, I default to policymaker.
I did policy debate for 4 years in high school. I started judging last year on the China topic. I have judged at 3ish tournaments this year.
I'm fine with speed, just be clear. Nevertheless, please slow down a bit on the tag lines so that I can write them down. Please do the same with theory and T. I can only type/write so fast.
Tag team Cross-Ex is fine as long as the people who are supposed to be talking are doing most of the talking.
I like to think I'm tech > truth, but if what you're saying is completely ridiculous or just blatantly false, I'm probably not going to buy it. This does not mean weird Ks like lizard people or something are unacceptable.
If you don't have any offense at the end of the round, I'm not going to vote for you.524
Case Debate:
Whatever you want to run here is fine. You should probably read some offense on case. Case defense is fine, just make sure to explain to me why it matters at the end of the round.
Aff should explain the stories of their advantages. Tell me how you get to your impact, extend the links and internal links please.
Counterplans:
CPs fine. Just explain them well.I've heard a lot of States CPs on this topic and they're honestly really boring. I won't judge you any differently if you run something ultra generic like this, but it would be nice to listen to something more interesting and specific.
The counterplan must be competitive for me to vote for it, so answer the perm. Also, aff should read perm(s)
Disads:
Read what you want. Make sure to explain the story of the Disad in some sort of small overview. Please make sure to extend all the parts of the DA throughout the round. I often seems teams not do this and then lose DAs because of it. Tell me what your internal link chain is.
Kritiks:
Whatever Ks you want to read are fine. I am most familiar with Cap and Biopower because that is what I read in high school. No matter what, be clear in your explanations and tell me why to prefer the alternative over the aff.
Also, if you want to kick the alt and go for the link and impact as a case turn, thats fine too. Just explain why it wins the round.
You probably shouldn't run Kritiks on novices, but I won't automatically vote you down for it if you do.
Topicality:
Make sure there is in round abuse if you're planning to go for it. otherwise, it's fine. If you go for it in the 2NR, you should probably be doing a full 5 minutes on it.
Other Theory:
Again, make sure there is in round abuse if you want me to vote on it.
  