
  Henry Castillo
University of Nevada-Las Vegas/College of Business 

My debate/academic background stems from high school debate, both local and national circuit tournaments (Meadows, Berkeley, and Golden Desert). Credentials include State Championship (2009), 3 CCSD Championships consecutively, and qualifying to the National Tournament twice (2007 and 2009).

I am more of a traditional judge in which I find debate to be both educational and practical to actual-life situations. The majority of Americans, for example, can be considered as 'lay judges' and have never flowed a debate round, don't know technical terms, etc. (i.e. your parents will most likely not know how to follow your debate format). I find fostering debate rounds that help mirror or emulate scenarious you would most likely face outside of high school or college debate to be better persuasive and well-rounded. I doubt spewing or giving kritiks will persuade the majority of non-debate-experinced citizens towards a certain point, therefore I find it's not practical to focus primarily on techniques. However, I do understand the importance of technical terminology in the debate world, so I will respect and acknolwedge it within the round. I am more strict on this with L/D than I am with C/X. As you will find below, I am fine with speed, theory, etc. 

I will listen to pretty much anything--however, it is the debater's job to explain the warrants and significance of an argument, card, etc. in order for me to weigh it for you in the round. Explain why it is important--simply throwing in evidence/response for the sake of responding or putting down a card will not do anything.

I will vote on T and K's, but I like to place the burden of the Kritik more on the individual(s) who bring it up. Unfortunately I find Kritiks are not well responded to, but if Kritiks are not well explained then that can be weighed against the team that brings it up. If neither debater weighs the round, I will pick the best policy option I see fit in the round--status quo, the case, counterplans, K Alt, etc.

Flowing/Speed: I am generally fine with flowing at any speed, I do ask however that the faster you speak the more explicit you are when extending arguments, etc.

Feel free to ask me any questions before the round begins if you would like clarification about my judging style.
  