
  Mandy Castle

general comments
Debate however you would like to in front of me, but I definitely prefer fast, clear, technical policy debate. My default position is that there should be a topical affirmative plan against the s.q. or a competing policy option. I also tend to be a flow oriented judge and I don't like intervening. I also tend to be expressive when I judge, so looking at me occasionally will probably tell you how much I like an argument.
plan/ T: you should read one, it should be topical. kritiks and such are fine, but whining about debate as an activity being bad won't get you far with me. If that is your opinion then I don't know why you are in the activity and you should pick a new one. DO NOT make a reverse voter on topicality, it will cause me to bang my head against the wall only and you to lose speaker points. You can go for T in front of me, I do not mind it.
theory - its fine, but make sure you are clear and try and form an interpretation of how debate would look under your violation/ answering that violation
das - like them. I will look to the link before uniqueness especially on politics because very rarely will you win a 100% chance that something will pass or not pass and if you were to win that 100% chance most likely the aff would win on uniqueness overwhelms the link.
CPs - like them, more specific the better. Run them how you will - theory is up to the debaters. I tend to think that consult CPs have perm/ net benefit problems if the aff asks the right questions in cross-ex
case - love these debates, wish there was more of them. I tend to think that affs get away with not debating the case very often and a good neg can really cause some damage by just going for case and a da
Ks - its okay if you run them. I don't in college, so my familiarity with the literature is not as high as it should be. That said I have voted on them in the past, probably will in the future, but they aren't my favorite rounds to watch. I also tend to think that the alternative rarely solves for anything because my rejecting capitalism in this one round won't actually cause a revolution. The aff should make some of those arguments though.

I probably missed some important points - so if you have questions just ask. Also, be nice to each other, if you call a girl a guy in the round or vice versa I will correct you – you should then apologize to the person, not to me. Being funny will also boost your speaker points but so will being nice (because I lack the ability to be funny in debates myself).
  