
  I debated for two years in High School and this is my first year judging. I'm somewhat familiar with the topic, but I'm not too familiar with very specific abbreviations.

I'm pretty open minded to any argument as long as you justify what you're advocating for and hopefully impact those justifications, I'll vote you up. With that said you can consider me a tabula rosa judge.

DAs/CPs
I'll vote on them. Just make sure you have valid claims and warrants for your evidence and if someone does make an absurd claim, call them out on it and explain why it's absurd. Just prove that the CP is competitive and has some Net Benefits.

Theory/T
I'm not too familiar with really in-depth theory, but if you do decide to run in front of me please explain how the other team is being abusive and don't be afraid to impact any of your claims. As for T, I'll vote on it. On a final note, slow down on these arguments, I'm not the fastest flower

K's/Performance
This is the argument I'm most familiar with. With that said, please don't expect me to default to the K just because I like it. If you're going to run a K in front of you, please do explain it, because I'm not too familiar with all of the really specific K's. If you end up running a K without an alt please give me reasons why it's better to not have an alt, or I'll just buy the solvency deficit arguments that are hopefully made by the aff. As for performance/non-traditional debate, I'm pretty open about it, but you have to give me reasons as to why your advocation is the better, and please do some sort of impact calculus towards the rebuttals. I would also prefer if you decide to do a performative argument to have a role of the ballot.

Speed
I'm cool with speed. I don't think I've ever debate a really fast team, but if you're going to fast I will ask you to slow down because I won't be able to flow your arguments. Also be very clear, espically with your tags. With that said, I'd like it if you slowed a half second to read your tags clearly if you're going really fast.

Paperless
Prep time ends as soon as the flash drive leaves the computer

Overall I'd really like some impact calculus at the end of the round so my job ends up easier. I'd also really like it if you give me reasons as to why you won the debate. Also on a last note please don't be rude to one another in round.
  