
  Christopher Caton, William Fremd High School, Palatine, IL

Speed
Speak slowly and coherently. The quality of your arguments is more valuable than the quantity, and I will not weigh arguments that are presented faster than I am able to write them. Furthermore, I will penalize excessively fast talking in the debater's speaker points.

Time
You can keep your own time insofar as it is permitted by tournament rules; however, I will only consider my timekeeping device to be the official record, and I will not entertain arguments made after time has been called.

Value Debate
Arguments should be furthered that reasonably pertain to the value clash presented by the resolution; arguments beyond the scope of the value clash are inconsequential, so I implore debaters to regularly demonstrate the significance of an argued point to the context of the resolution. I won't weigh inconsequential arguments.

Additionally, I do not consider pieces of evidence to constitute arguments. Evidence exists to support a rhetorical argument in favor of a given position. Your job as a debater is not to attempt to refute arguments with evidence, but rather to refute arguments with counterarguments that are themselves supported by evidence. Requests to "cross apply cards" will likely fall on deaf ears. I do not flow evidence; I flow arguments, strengthened or weakened by the presence of evidence.

More Information
I'll answer the questions presented in this document: 
http://nflonline.org/uploads/DistrictInformation/08LDParadigm.pdf

1. I am a former LD debater, and I have judged LD debate for 3 years.
2A. I prefer a typical conversational speed (4 or 5 on a scale of 7), excessive speed weighs heavily on my decision, but I will not give a loss to a debater for speed unless I am physically unable to record an argument.
2B. The criterion is a major factor in my judging decision.
2C. Final rebuttals should include both voting issues and line-by-line rebuttals. Voting issues should be given at the end of a speech. Voting issues are not necessary, but very useful. The use of debate jargon and technical language should be kept to an absolute minimum.
2D. I decide based on who is the winner of the key issues of the round.
2E. Evidence (both analytical and empirical) is almost always necessary to win a round (6 on a scale of 7)
2F. I keep a rigorous flow.
  