
  About Me:


I am a current 2nd year Physics Major at the University of California, Berkeley and have several years of debate experience. During high school I helped launch my school's debate team and eventually went on to compete at the state and national level (sadly didn’t have the money to also make it to TOC). Mainly I competed in PF but I have done most of the major forms of debate and have experience judging LD, Parli, PF and CX. 


General Rules:
I am purely a flow judge, the only things which will matter in the debate is which side has the largest benefits in accordance with the framework. I will try to be tabula rasa as a judge 
If there is no framework defined in round I will judge according to utilitarian net benefits 
Quality of evidence is key, context is everything; if forced to choose between competing evidence I will side with the team that has more clearly explained why their evidence is relevant
I will not call evidence unless there is serious (usually ethical) dispute over it during the round, it is the debaters job to call the other team for poor evidence not a judge's
Do not abuse evidence rules to try and win a debate you are otherwise losing as judges have discretion over what constitutes improper citations of evidence 
After evidence, argument structure is the next most important thing. Make sure all contentions, disadvantages, kritiks etc. are structured properly. If your opponent calls out a missing part of your argument that will be sufficient to disqualify that argument in my mind 
Simply using debate parlance is not enough to attack an opponent's argument. Just saying your opponents are missing a link or are nonunique is not enough, you must explain specifically how that piece of their argument is missing
Make sure your arguments are probable or at least reasonable
Otherwise just standard stuff, omission = concession, uncontested definitions or arguments flow etc.


For Policy:
My biggest pet peeve is the poor link work often found in policy debate, please provide good warrants and explain why your evidence is relevant
Pretty much everything is fair in policy, consequently I am willing to buy any kind of argument and do not have any serious structural preferences


For LD:
I am strongly against the use of abusive plans/counterplans that sound like they are out of a policy case because LD is supposed to be a values debate. While some specifics and advocacies can be useful to frame the debate, I will be sympathetic to abuse arguments if the plan is designed to be too specific to be responded to
All theory is in play 
Spread is fine (although I will knock speaker points for defensive spreading since I think it is strange to change tempo so rapidly during the course of a debate)


For Parli:
All theory is in play for Value and Policy Debates but not for Fact Debates that are supposed to be more similar to PF
Define the type of debate you plan on having right off the top of the first speech
AFF does not automatically have right to define, I will not buy that against a T
Structure is everything in Pali, please make your arguments very clear and follow all exact rules especially on voters that come up in Parli a lot (T’s, K’s, etc.)


For PF:
THIS IS NOT POLICY!!!! Speed is good but DO NOT start spreading
You cannot provide plans, some general advocacies are fine but do not try and win by creating policy like plans that other teams cannot respond to 
FLOW YOUR ARGUMENTS ALL THE WAY, if something is not mentioned in the 3 IT IS DROPPED. I cannot even tell you how many teams do this and get away with it because of poor judge flow. Since it ended my high school debating career on a sour note it is my largest pet peeve, meaning I am very likely to drop you if you do this
Pretty much the only theory I will buy in PF is time skew, severance or topicality (no need to structure this formally) as PF is not supposed to be about a ton of theory
No new arguments after the 2 and no new evidence after the 3 
Please provide voting issues at the start of the 3 and begin to amalgamate contentions to make weighing the final impacts easier 
Framework debate is highly encouraged but should be left to a reasonable level as PF is not LD
Crossfire is for debaters clarification not judges judgments so please do not try to grandstand during a CX. It will have no effect on my vote.


Best of luck to all of you!
  