
  Name: Shalott Cecchini
Affiliation: Law Magnet 
Updated 9.16.12

I debated for four years at Clear Lake High School in Houston, where with the exception of a short lived career in policy debate, I did LD in the TFA/TOC circuit. 
I majored in political science at UTD and now I'm working on my MS in sociology. I am, for the most part, a glorified student-hobo who enjoys baking delicious vegan creations, reading, and watching hilarious cat videos on the interwebz.

Short Version:
- Yes, I'm fine with speed.
- No, there aren't any arguments I won't listen to.
- I don't care if you debate sitting down. (Why do people even ask me this????)


Long Version:

Speed - Is great. Go for it and be clear. 

Evidence - I have no problem calling for cards and reserve the right to do so. However, don't expect me to do the work for you. If it wasn't in the speech then it doesn't matter if the card says it. 

Policy arguments in LD - I often wonder why this is even a question, but having been asked this various times it should probably be addressed. I don't think the nature of the argument predisposes it to a certain form of debate. I have absolutely no problem listening to arguments that would traditionally be labeled 'policy arguments' and in fact, really enjoy them. These were my go-to arguments when I debated and is naturally, what I know best. 

Critical arguments - I didn't spend too much time running them when I debated and thus, am not exceptionally well versed in the plethora of critical literature out there. I do enjoy listening to them, but make sure I understand what it is im voting for. If you can explain it well enough for both me and your opponent to understand, then feel free. Naturally, if I don't understand it I wont vote on it.

Theory- I default reasonability unless instructed otherwise. Also, give me pen time. 

Technology, file transfers, and "no you can't see my laptop" - I understand how it absolutely awful it is to cart six half empty expandos through the halls of a two story mega school, I really do. So when everyone started using laptops I was thrilled. As a judge and a former debater, I understand the frustrations that come with being dependent on laptops, dropbox synching, ect so I try to be as cooperative as possible about it. I don't think debaters should take prep time to jump files and will for the most part, be patient with the whole process. However do not take my kindness and understanding for granted. I have been doing this for many moons and I can tell perfectly well when you're stalling or stealing prep.

Things I loathe - People who are mean/rude. This is referring to both in speeches and in CX. Though I won't vote you down on being an ass, your speaks will likely reflect your inability to be civil with a fellow human being. 

Speaker points -
30 - You are literally the human embodiment of debate perfection. Unless I'm feeling particularly generous you wont get a 30.
29 - 29.5 - Very impressive. 
28 - 28.5 - Average.
27 - 27.5 - You likely lost very badly or said something extraordinarily dumb.
below a 27 - You probably impact turned rape, said something incredibly racist or physically assaulted someone/something.

any questions, feel free to ask/email me/hunt me down at a tournament. 
My email is shalottcecchini@gmail.com
  