
  I'm a former debater for Burleson High School, and I had some success around the DFW area. I didn't get to travel much due to cost, and lack of support from my school district but I managed and I know what I'm doing as a judge. I made it to octos at TFA state my senior year, and broke at numerous TOC tournaments. I currently go to the University of North Texas, where I'm studying psychology.

As far as debate rounds go, I like to see clash and I like to hear meaningful debate. I don't care what arguments you run as long as they make sense and you can justify them based off of the topic given. Far fetched arguments that beg the question of the resolution or just aren't topical don't belong in round. I will also not tolerate being rude, insensitive, or any other offensive things someone could do in a debate round. 

I believe there are two parts to a debate round, the framework, and the contention level. Framework sets up "how" we view the resolution and the round, and the contention level explains "what" about the resolution. However you word that is fine, whether a counter-plan, K, or DAs, ect.

Framework: It is necessary to tell me how we should look at the resolution, and I expect you to do so through your framework. Value/criterions aren't necessary, but they are helpful. Use the framework to set up how I should, as a judge, view the round and weigh arguments. Whether that's through a traditional set up, burdens, or a K, it doesn't matter. Make your arguments make sense and I'll listen to them. I will not put arguments in your mouth and I'm not going to assume I know what you're trying to say, as a former debater I absolutely hated it when my judges would make sense of my opponents arguments for them and I'm not going to do that for you. Not only does it make my job easier, but it makes the debating smoother and more enjoyable.

Contentions: Or whatever you want to call them. Give me a claim, warrant, impact. What are you saying, why is that true, and why do I care; all set up with your framework. "Why I care" will be where you impact the argument and give me a judging calculus. Don't make me do your work for you, because you won't like me.

Speed: Don't use it if you don't need to, if you're going to spread and then have a minute left over, or just repeat yourself then I'm going to look at you like an idiot and I won't flow your arguments. Also, you will get awful speaks from me. Other than that, I understand the necessity of speed and it's place in debate currently, but do so in a way that I can understand you. If you're speaking quickly but inarticulately then I'll put my pen down. Part of debate is being able to read your judge and you should be paying attention to whether or not I'm paying attention to you. On a scale of 1 to 10, my speed tolerance is about a 7 to an 8.

Theory: I hate theory, but I'll listen to it if it's necessary. Don't run 4 theory violations against a normal AC. I won't like you, and I won't care what you have to say. That being said, if your opponent is being legitimately abusive, or there is a serious theoretical problem with what they're doing, run the theory correctly. However, theory voters are obvious. You don't need to read me a card for why education is needed for debate, or why fairness matters. It's the other stuff you should worry about.

Speaker points: You start out with a 28 and go up or down from there. Don't say "like" 50 times a sentence, and don't repeat yourself. A perfect 30 means that you not only spoke well, but your arguments made sense and I genuinely liked the debate round from your side. If you're abusive or don't make sense, don't expect high speaks. I'll disclose speaks if you ask.

If you have any other questions or concerns, just ask me at the tournament, or email me at cameron.jackson@sbcglobal.net
  