
  I debated for three years for Notre Dame and recently graduated. I'm not very picky when it comes to running certain types of arguments but here is a list of things I think you should consider :

Kritik
The aff gets to weigh their case unless the neg does a good job of making me think they don't.
The more specific analysis the neg does regarding how the K interacts with the aff , the more likely I am to vote for you (and probably higher speaker points).
At the very least know your argument the round and don't try to cover yourself by throwing I donaround meaningless jargon. If you don't meet this requirement your speaker points will suffer.
Explain why the K turns each advantage.

T
Close rounds will usually go to the affirmative.
I won't vote for you if you just say "T is a voter" without any explanation. You should be able to impact your arguments properly. 
No, T isn't genocide.
Having a list of topical affs or specific reasons/cards as to why the affirmative uniquely kills the topic will get you far.

Theory
Not the biggest fan but sometimes you have to go for it. Just be sure to impact your argument. 
Your interpretations can't be too abusive but then again, if the other team lets you get away with it then by all means, go for it.
I'll side with the aff on theory most of the time.

CP
Having a specific CP against the aff is cool but you have to run it properly.
The CP should, at the very least, be textually competitive with the aff. 
I think that most CP theory is just a reason to reject the argument but I will still vote for it if it is impacted well enough.
Consult CP's and PIC's are dirty but I will be willing to vote on them. I give bonus points if you haves specific evidence for your consult cp regarding the aff. 

Disads
You will not win a disadvantage if there isn't some form of impact calc in your speech. I would prefer if you started touching on it during the 1ar/block as opposed to leaving it for the 2nr/2ar.
You have three choices: magnitude, probability, and Timeframe. Pick one or two and explain why they are the most important when doing you calc. 
Smart, analytical arguments can get you a long way as opposed to reading a lot of crappy evidence.
I like it when you get creative with your DA's and when answering them.

So do your thing and try to have fun. Please speak clearly and don't be a jackass to your opponents.
  