
  I debated on the national and local circuit for Scarsdale High School from 2012-2016, and was captain my senior year. I now attend Cornell.

Note: Please slow down for author names!! Also, when you extend, it’s really helpful if you reference not only the author’s name, but also where the card is located in your case (i.e. extend the second card of my second contention, ___). I am not good with spelling, and it is much easier to track arguments when they are associated with a number or location instead of just a name. 

Theory/T: 
I default to competing interpretations, but I can be persuaded otherwise. If the shell is drop the debater, I have a low threshold for the RVI, likely because I lost many debates this way, but obviously if the argument is not made or is weakly asserted I will not infer it. 

Critical Arguments:
I like when there is clear interaction and weighing between RoBs in critical debates. I prefer topical positions. Please do not read ad hominem attacks or arguments that question the character of your opponent or judge. No one should feel uncomfortable in round. 

LARP: 
Weighing and clear roadmaps are really important for LARP debate, as otherwise I am not sure how the competing evidence interacts. I did not often opt to have these types of debates as a debater, so I feel less comfortable judging them than I would a theory or K round, per say. 


Arguments I tend to dislike:
Disclosure theory Flash-drive or wifi theory Presumption AFC
Please be courteous and respectful to your opponent.

 If you are debating an underclassmen or someone who is new to the activity, take into account the types of arguments you are running and try to adjust so that the round is educational for everyone. If you think that theory is your best strategy against someone who is less well-versed, fine, but don’t just read a shell and sit down, also engage substance. I will not dock your speaks if you choose to read theory, but I will if you are doing so in an un-educational manner that simply tries to access the ballot. 

If you and your opponent agree to flash each other your speech documents, have this discussion before the round and decide if you want the time spent swapping flash-drives to count as part of prep. If not, please set a clear limit on the length of additional facilitation time. I don’t care either way, so long as neither of you is unfairly benefiting from the time spent in this exchange. 

I determine speaks based on strategy, the overall quality of your arguments, and their presentation. If you are unclear, rude, or win without a well-rounded strategy, I will likely lower your speaks. 
  