
  Affiliation
Chaminade College Prep High School '15
UC San Diego '19
Email me if you have any questions about my philosophy, affiliations, or coaching - jec150@ucsd.edu
Prep ends when the file is sent or flash drive leaves computer
 Pref Sheet Info
 My role in the debate is to listen to whatever you have to say. I will not make judgements about what you are reading because that is not my role. However, I have listed my personal leanings on certain issues in debate.
Just because I coach Chaminade AT does not mean I know anything about your mumbo jumbo kritik. I enjoy all types of good debate and my problem with a lot of critiques is my gripe with a lot of debate that isn't case and da. A lot of teams just read their blocks that their A-team gave them and leads to everyone having a bad time. Debate is at its best when you stop looking at your screen and wax poetic.
Policy
 General
1. default to policymaker
2. i can flow, but slow down on tags and authors; i will clear twice before docking speaks
3. presumption goes neg, until another world is introduced
Kritik
 1. open to all args
 2. explain the alternative and how it solves
Theory/topicality
 1. err neg on condo (in a world with logical limited conditionality) 
 2. rejecting arg usually solve abuse against most other theory (ie fifty state, int'l, object fiat)
 3. judge kick is NOT assumed, until neg says it either in cx or the 2nr if the aff doesn't use cx 
 K Affs/Framework
 1. Important caveat - even if you are good at the tech of fw, you're going to have a bad time if you don't answer the thesis of the aff or how that relates to fw
 run whatever - couple things hereagainst fw args, i will be much more persuaded if your aff relates to the topic in one way or anotheri err ever so slightly fw, but i am not ideologically against affs without plansan advocacy statement probably makes abuse claims easier to settleIf you give me a snack or coffee before the round, I'll bump up your speaks by .1
LD
 I have a traditional policy background and so I'll evaluate things on an offense defense paradigm. my role is to listen and not limit, so run whatever. If your trying to pref, here are my preferences
try to debate substance and not blippy theory because it will effect your speaksmake sure your k makes sense. i've seen weird franken k's as of late and the alt never resolves the impacttraditional ld nc's are fun to listen to, but need to be linked to the aff mechanism to be offensei dislike when coaches post round just to post round because it negatively impacts the student. the student might be displeased with a decision, but your coach arguing with me won't 1. change the ballot 2. do anything else besides be unpleasantthese frankenK's/mashing together of random k cards/monstrosities are not good. if your alt is simply the squo, your k is 1. nonunique 2. probably doesn't solve the harms of social death
  