
  Weber State University Debate
Alta high debate
LoganChadwick16@gmail.com

I will keep this short and just describe things that are different than the norms of the debate community.

Topicality was an argument I went for a lot while debating so don't be afraid to pull it into the block like most teams are. What I am looking for on this flow is good analysis and good line by line. Which ever team does that will probably win the T debate. I default to competing interps this stems from the fact that i have rarely heard a persuasive explanation of reasonability. if you can provide a good explanation of reasonability you will likley be rewarded.

I like the K and I still go for it, in my opinion there is nothing better than a good K debater and if you do your job right I will vote you up here. You have to paint a picture of exactly how the aff is violating the K and why I should vote it down (and win that), your alt is good. Also I love K affs, especially non-topical ones, because those are fun and I ran them a lot also. Oh if you are a performance team, RUN IT ON ME. I dig that stuff.

I generally think that Perf Con and Condo are bad, and I will definitely vote on that theory, whichever team does the best analysis will win this debate.

My favorite arg was XO so I love a tight PIC debate.

I used to dislike the D/A debate, but I have come around to like it more now, but understand you have to be good on the flow and your line by line to win this argument.

Overall I am pretty chill and you can run the round the way you want to. Don't get too angry or mean in CX because I don't like that (especially if have higher status than the other team) and you will probably lose speaker points for douchebaggery.

LD SECTION FOR SILVER AND BLACK
I have judged a little LD and I have a basic grasp of how the events work. Here are a couple things I want to see that are probably different than most LD judges
-I like spreading, as fast as you want
-I probably wont vote of theory arguments like "the other team didn't run Util so it is a voting issue" You can run whatever you want
-Ks, Ks, Ks, I like them


I am the red haired kid who usually wears metal shirts so if you have any questions before round I am pretty easy to find.
  