
  Background: 3 years LD debate, 3 years parliamentary debate in high school 


Logistics: I run by a hands-off approach, meaning I want the debaters to debate. I'm unlikely to read cards after round - my ballot is based on the flow. I hate intervening. The only thing that I will strictly enforce is time limits, because that's fair. 


Arguments:
I am pretty open to all kinds of arguments, I will never vote down an argument because it doesn't suit my tastes. topicality, Kritic, disad, counterplans, framework debate - all OK with me. keep in mind I am unfamiliar with K literature, but that doesn't mean it can't be run. If it is well constructed AND clearly explained, it's still good. This should be the case for all arguments anyways. 

I will default to value/standard debate but this is not set in stone - if you give me a good reason to, I will changeEvidence is not the same as an argument - i'm looking for clear analysis, weighing mechanisms, impacts, links and warrants - make your argument matter to me. Reading cards through your whole speech is NOT enough.Give me voters and some way to evaluate the round. I prefer not to have to use my discretion to pick a ballot.line by line debate is goodBe logical - show me your clear logical progression when you're developing/extending arguments. This also means that cards are not an end-all, be-all. If you can defend a claim as a logical conclusion, I will take it even without evidence (until your opponent stands up and tells me why I can't!)lastly, if you're going to run an argument then stick to it. for example if you're running topicality make sure you do enough work to convince me of abuse with legitimate reasons. a rushed 10-second spiel on theory as a back-up plan in case your contentions fall apart is not going to save you
Speed: I'm not fantastic, but I can handle a decent amount. Being the fastest speaker in the room doesn't particularly impress me- I prefer clarity. I will call out 'speed' if I really can't follow what you're saying, but I would prefer not to since it disrupts the flow of the speech and potentially the speaker. I heard plenty of spreading in my time, but keep in mind that I'm roughly 2 years removed from LD.

Speakers Points: There's a big difference between being disrespectful to the PERSON vs the ARGUMENT. The latter is okay, the former is not. Being rude will automatically drop you a lot on my ballot. I will give out 30's to exceptional speakers, however, just being polite and clearly understandable is enough to give you a great score. 

have fun! I thoroughly enjoyed my debating years in high school and I hope you guys do too.
  