
  Who I am
I debated for Torrey Pines High school for four years (2013- 2017) and was co-captain my senior year, but entered the debate world during middle school through Palo Alto High School. I competed on the circuit my sophomore and junior year at Valley, Voices, and Berkeley. I debated primarily local debate because our team fell apart - lay debate, Winter Classic, CSU Fullerton. Nevertheless, I went to VBI (5th and 8th lab) for 2 summers and learned about the circuit there, as well as from previous team members. 

I am a freshman at UC Berkeley; therefore, I can judge for you at Berkeley if you email me.

Debate Related Things

On-topic cases - On one hand, I love on-topic cases because they're what I expect. On the other hand, if I have to hear the same argument over and over each round, I will have a melt down due to the lack of creativity. Try to make unique arguments that aren't so standard. 
Theory - I like theory, slow down for the interp. Make sure they violate! If they don't and it's a standard shell on the topic, I will be super angry because that happened to me once! Read clear standards and legitimate voters. I prefer competing interpretations and default RVIs, usually drop the arg, but reasoning on your part is useful.
Philosophy - I enjoy reading philosophy, especially niche cases, not to say I understand them. If you explain it thoroughly enough, I should be to weigh the round clearly. 
K's and Continental - Don't understand, so don't read it in front of me. (Well, I could tolerate, but I would prefer not to).
Crystallization/weighing - All of the above is trivial if you don't weigh. Don't spew out fifty mediocre weighing arguments, but make some decent, substantive ones that really explain why your arguments are stronger than the opponents, and I will be satisfied. After all, most things in life are pretty arbitrary. I would rather you just used your later speeches for weighing. 
tl:dr;
Please just break down the round. Even if you think you’re losing, crystallization is key. So, do that, and I will either greaten your speaks or just give you the W, if I am lost in a forest of arguments.
How I feel about speaker points


30 - you could win TOC29 - you could break?28 - did you debate well - ish?27 - did you execute some interesting strategies with mediocre reward?26 - did you sit down halfway through your speech for no apparent reason?25 - did you speak English?
Here's how you can contact me: kaththebubblemaster at gmail dot com.
  