
  


    
        Which events do you typically judge?

        Policy

    
    
        What is your competitive speech or debate experience?

        4 years

    
    
        High School

        Kinkaid

    
    
        College

        University of Pennsylvania

    
    
        Where have you coached?

        

    
    
        Approximately how many rounds have you judged this season?

        1

    
    
        How many years have you been judging?

        1

    
    
        I would prefer to listen to debates that were about these types of arguments:

        No preference, I listen to all types of arguments, as long as they are articulated logically and clearly. I have less of a background with kritiks, but that doesn't mean I won't understand them/won't vote on them! 

    
    
        I give good speaker points to debaters that:

        Keep a clean flow, explain and defend their evidence, effectively use cross ex time, and are able to present a speech smoothly and articulately

    
    
        I would give low speaker points to a debater that:

        Does not know their evidence well, jumps all over the flow, is unclear/incomprehensible

    
    
        My favorite argument when I was debating was:

        politics!

    
    
        I won't vote on these types of arguments:

        n/a

    
    
        Rate the following argument types

        Topicality: Alright
Theory: Okay
Counterplans: Awesome
Disads: Awesome
Kritiks: Alright
Framework: Alright
Speed/Spreading: Alright

    
    
        Explain your ratings, if you like

        If you're going for a procedural (like theory or topicality), please make sure it's actually very relevant and not just a cheap shot out. When argued well, topicality debate can be great! Theory is harder.. As for counterplans and disads, love em. 

    
    
        Comments on flowing or speed:

        You can spread as fast as you would like as long as you are CLEAR, which is super important! 

    
    
        Other things a team should know about?

        I haven't judged any rounds on this topic before, so I don't know a lot of the acronyms that y'all may be familiar with, so as long as you explain them, you should be fine!

    



  