
  I debated for four years for the Hockaday School on both the national and local circuits, and now attend Stanford University.
General: Do as much as you can to write the ballot for me while closing all possible doors against your opponent’s ballot story. Be comparative; this involves substantive weighing of arguments (beyond mere jargon), but also a clear and warranted prioritization of which arguments I ought to evaluate first. I generally prefer to see more substantive debate. I’m not a big fan of cases littered with hidden theory triggers or spikes, and though that strategy may win my ballot if won on the flow, your speaks may go down and I will most likely give more leeway to responses made against those positions. 
Critical Arguments: If you choose to run them, you should not assume I understand the philosophy behind the arguments, as I rarely ran critical arguments. So long as there is a clearly explained claim, warrant, and impact, I will be willing to vote off of it.
Theory: Shells should have a clear interp, violation, standards, and voter. I prefer to see them run against actual abuse as opposed to multiple shells run as a way to avoid engaging the AC or actual substance. I will vote on RVIs if justified and won.

Speed: I can handle speed. Make sure to slow down on tag lines and author names. Also, slow down or add inflection to arguments with huge implications (“drop this and you lose” type arguments), as I will be hesitant to vote off of them if the implication was not made clear in the first speech.
Extensions: You should have a clearly extended warrant and impact if you want me to evaluate an argument. If your argument is conceded, you can extend a briefer version, but the essential components should still be there.
Speaks: I evaluate speaks based on overall strategy; this involves argument selection, technical execution, and the ability to craft a coherent and decisive ballot story at the end of the round.
Humor is good. Be nice, have fun, and feel free to ask me questions before the round.
  