
  


    
        Sean Cheren
 Eagan High School '11
 University of Minnesota ‘15
Computer Engineering -- Minor in Mathematics
Updated: 10/31/12 (Happy Halloween!) 


Overview
This is my second year out. As a debater, I preferred to have a relevant discussion to the topic at hand rather than just being programmed to read argument x when I hear argument y. Debate is about becoming more informed, as well as being competitive. I'll listen to whatever you have to say with an unbiased opinion, and I don't penalize for particular styles. (I won't drop you or your speaks if you are a stock and programmed debater, providing you're winning on the flow). However, if you want to debate to my preferred style, I will definitely bump your speaks, and probably be more engaged. How to do so:

First up, think for yourself, use your evidence well, but make sure you're thinking everything through. With a little more personal analysis, and your own interpretation of the topic/ your framework, chances are I'll buy your arguments more easily. This means I don't just want you to read blocks (even though like I said, those are fine). It's about the balance. 

Second, I judged varsity for 3 months in 2011, and I'm getting back in the groove for 2012. I haven't been involved in the event much (keep in mind I'm in engineering and math), but that doesn't mean I'm not aware with the conventions and formats of LD. I won't buy new arguments, I expect extensions that aren't through ink, I'll only vote on theory for clear abuse, etc. The first skill I found I'm losing is keeping up with the really fast rounds. I was a quick debater, I could flow just fine, but I'm not super used to it. I understand the need for speed, and you can still go pretty quick! Just don't blow me away. Because I'm empathetic, I'll yell clear up to 3 times, which means I'm not getting your arguments down. Be prepared to slow down, and everything will go fine.

Third, I liked unique arguments in high school, and I still do! Be creative, run that case that you haven't broken out yet. I really enjoy different ways to look at things! My paradigm will adapt to the debate, meaning I can look at any framework that you set up in round. Along with this, I hope you can still be people during the round. Be personable, make me laugh, keep me entertained and I'll flow better. Don't focus on jokes to detract from your arguments, but I definitely boost speaks for funny debates. In addition to entertaining me being my favorite part of the paradigm, I promise you'll enjoy the debate more; we'll probably actually learn something. 

Again, if you're not funny or entertaining, I won't penalize you, only judge as unbiased as I can. 

Fourth, Again with the I've been out of the activity, signpost and be very clear. CARD NAMES CARD NAMES CARD NAMES. Be slow and make sure I get them. Also when you extend evidence, you can't just extend the name, the name helps me get around my flow easily. Don't be muddled, make the framework clear and WEIGH YOUR ARGUMENTS. 

Last, I'm very involved with math. I'd love to hear about your methodology in stats, and I'd like details. I'm versed in statistics, and if you don't have methodology/ confidence for your evidence, that lacks a warrant. Make this an interesting comparison and I'll enjoy that discussion.


I'll break down the other individual components of the debate:

TL;DR: 

-Not too fast, not slow.
-Be creative and think for yourself. I want to see your analysis of the round you're currently in, you can't prep that.
-Be funny.
-Run unique arguments.
-Be very clear with cardnames and where you are on the flow
-Be smart about math in front of me, or I'll be sad. 

Framework
I will use the framework established in the round. I prefer a clear standard/ weighing mechanism. Just tell me how you want me to judge the round, and I'll do that. 

Bonus points if you guys can just agree on a framework. 

Speed
I wasn't the best flower in high school, but I can keep up with standard varsity pace. If you consider yourself fast, you may want to slow down one notch. I don't vote for arguments I missed the first time.
I'm probably about a 6.5/10 for speed.

Theory
Theory is necessary sometimes, and will earn you the W. However, if you run theory when you don't need to, expect low speaks and for me to ignore it really easily. Unless it's extremely compelling, I will only vote on actual abuse.

Speaks
I award speaks for being creative, entertaining, and coherent. 25-27 is pretty standard boring debate with missing arguments. 28-29 your standard good debate, lacks entertainment. If you get a 30, it's because I really enjoyed the round, or something you did stood out and was excellent.

    



I'll do my best to make an unbiased decision. Expect this page to change as I see arguments I do/don't like. Thanks, and remember, most important is have fun.
  