
  I debated for Scarsdale High School, I went to NSD debate camp for 3 years, and I got a bid to the TOC my Junior year. I study philosophy at Northwestern University.

I ran a lot of tricks and theory as a debater, as well as framework heavy philosophical cases. My paradigm is very similar those of Emily Massey and Geoffrey Kristof. Essentially, debate however you want.

That being said:

1. I was certainly not a good larper as a debater so don’t expect me to be able to analyze this kind of debate as well as a policy judge. I will evaluate these arguments the same as any other, just help me out by being very explicit as to the functions of your arguments. 2. I love critical theory in philosophy, but it is terribly misused in debate in the form of Ks. If you have a cool Kritical argument, by all means run it, just know that I a) prefer when Ks are critical of a specific position (i.e. if the AFF runs a capitalistic AC and the NEG reads a cap K), and b) not based on factors external to the resolution (i.e. vote for me because I am black, a woman, etc.). I think Kritical role of the ballot arguments are very stupid and responses to them are good, so know I have bias here. 3. While at my peak I could flow as well as anyone else, bear in mind that I have been out of the activity for a little while, so, if you spread, please speak clearly. I will say clear as many times as I have to, but if I don’t understand what you’re saying that’s on you, not on me. 
Do whatever you want with T and theory, read as many offs as you want, just know that if you make the round exceedingly confusing to resolve it will have diminishing returns. Don’t be mean. Only be funny if you’re actually funny (but if you are then go for it). Bring back the a priori; it’s an oldie but a goodie. I love contingent standards almost as much as I love running theory on contingent standards (if your opponent triggers a contingent standard feel free to say “you activated my trap card”, but be sure to do it a booming voice). Be explicit in how you want me to evaluate the round. 

You get .5 extra speaker points if you wear some NU gear and another extra .5 if you can make a topical joke about Kelsey Allen-Niesen, Rahul Gosain, or Matt Mandel.
  