
  Affiliations: University High School, Liberty University

Experience:I competed in Policy at University High School in Newark New Jersey; I debated for all four years of High School. I currently debate competitively for Liberty University.

General Things to Know: Being rude does NOT make you a good debater! With that being said,if I find something stupid happening within a debate, I will likely face-palm, and/or shake my head; if I didn't understand you, I will give you a quizzical look. You should look up occasionally and take hints from the visual cues that I am sending. Great debaters take the time to weigh/establish an impact calculus/crystallize. I will vote for the debater who wins the important arguments, not the debater who wins the most arguments.

Cross Ex:I don't know how much I can stress it...CROSS EX IS BINDING! I don't care if you present arguments for why it shouldn't be binding or why lying in CX is ok, or any arguments with the implication which allows dishonesty in CX. Nevertheless, I don't flow CX, so it’s up to the debaters to refresh my memory of any inconsistencies between speeches and CX answers. On the other hand, CX can be the BEST or the WORST part of a debate, depending on how it plays out. A funny yet not disrespectful CX will score big when I'm deciding on how to assign speaks, while a rude and boring CX will negatively influence how I assign speaks.

Politics/DA: In general I like strong impact analysis, make logical arguments on how A leads to B that leads to C, and this is why it matters. Most DA debates come down to a question of impact magnitude, and little argument is left for link articulation. I believe analysis of the link is equally important as impact analysis.

CP: I am open all types of CP’s you just have to prove the competitiveness of said CP and make sure it has a net benefit. Articulation of how the CP accesses the net benefit is also a must.

Kritiks: I feel comfortable with most but please do not talk about an author and expect me to understand your entire argument. Explain how the Alt functions not just re-reading what your coaches wrote for you in the 1NC. Yes I enjoys K’s, yes I like Listening/running them but it is your job to give me clear analysis about why the K 1. Matters and 2.outweighs the AFF and why I should vote for it. For the Aff if you want me to vote for the perm you have to explain how the perm functions. A simple “perm-do both” or “perm- do the plan and non-mutually exclusive parts of K” will not get you my ballot.
  