
  I graduated from Monticello High School in 2013. I debated LD for 3 years and competed in National tournaments my senior year. I have only judged a few times during this season, so it might do you well to speak clearly, not necessarily slow, just clear enough so that i can follow the position.

I debated with a wide range of argument style during my senior year and for the most part I enjoy seeing them as a judge. As long as you explain your position correctly and efficiently enough to weigh between other arguments in the round it doesn't matter how unorthodox the position is. You can run nearly anything that you wish in front of me, whether or not it is successful in round is all up to you.


Clarity is super important in round, and your ability to spread will either seriously benefit or seriously hinder that clarity. Remember, my understanding of your case is first and foremost contingent on me hearing it correctly, so if you plan on spreading really fast, tell me prior to the round and i will request that you flash me the case. If not, then i will probably walk over during your speech to read over your shoulder. This does not mean that you should treat me with some sort of handicap and slow down to a point where it harms your position. 

Something a lot of LD debaters do is claim they will crystalize, and then do no such thing. Please make sure this is something you do when debating in front of me, because if you do not show me, i have to figure out myself how your arguments link into some calculus which definitionally is intervening.

I do enjoy good theory debate. Theory is a useful tool both strategically and a way to check abuse. Other off cases are fine too, just make sure the implications are clear during the speech. I enjoy listening to good critical arguments, interesting DA's and CP's and myriad other args so long as they're coherent. 

For almost every other concern, you can look at Jay Cummings paradigm.

If you have specific questions before the round feel free to ask me.
  