
  I'm the founder of Flowchat.io. We use debate flows and the philosophical concept of intentionality as the paradigm for a new chat forum platform.

I'm old school circuit debater from the pre-2000 era; I've been updated with k and performance theory from judging debates more recently. I can hear spread and I get k theory, topicality, dispositionality/conditionality, presumption, etc. plus wilder critical theory and philosophy than you probably run. So run whatever.

I believe strongly in judge transparency. I believe you should be able to see the judge's flow.

All my decisions are publicly viewable down to the individual argument, and I flow in detail on the Flowchat Mark IV demo at dialectica.firebaseapp.com.

Stylistically, I vote based on coherent 2NR/2AR stories backed up by events on the flow. In particular I reward teams that make smart strategic decisions. Don't create a solvable problem for your opponent. Create a dilemma. 

That doesn't mean strict tabula rasa "anything goes" - I don't vote on a dropped voting issue with "foobar!" for a warrant unless "foobar" is some kind of Dadaistic resistance act within a Lacanian nonsense-talk space being opened up by the evacuation of rationalist discourse from self-representation... but yeah, don't use "foobar!" as a warrant.

Politically I'm completely neutral. I will vote for Framework or performance or K teams as readily as I will vote for straight policy teams. Hell if you run some Fred Flintstone stock issues voter paradigm out of 1AC and manage to extend the damn thing in a way that makes sense I'll vote on that.

Theory-wise I'm completely fine with whatever inevitably nihilistic left-field high school farrago of mystifying philosophy-talk you want to run. I'll raise an eyebrow but I will listen, and I get the critical theory and most of the philosophy you'll want to cite.

Speaker-point wise I favor clear, precise, technical spreading with overviews, signposting and good clash.

People appear to have stopped yelling "clear!" when people spread badly. I'mma try to bring that back.
  