
  I’m a junior at Chattahoochee – I’ve been a 2A. 


Debating
Run what you’re comfortable with – not to say that you should default to confusing arguments in hopes of confusing the other team – the purpose is to debate, not to see who has the fewest answers to your sketch argument.
If you’re not clear, I’m not flowing you. I’ll call clear a couple of times, but if you don’t improve I’ll just give up.
I’m technical, but honestly I’ll probably view your argument with a little skepticism if it’s not on the side of truth (that being said, I’m not going to disregard heg bad just because I like heg.) Dropped arguments are probably true arguments, but not necessarily a reason why you win the debate – you’ll still have to impact that for me.
Use cross-x to your advantage – don’t just randomly ask questions – speaker points increase when you’re utilizing cross-x well and then bringing it later in speeches

Evidence
If you don’t properly explain it, I’m not going to look at it. Yes, good evidence is important, but so is your extrapolation.

Speaking
27.5 average, 30’s probably won’t happen

Topicality
It’s alright, not your best strategy unless the aff is actually untopical, I normally default to competing interpretations but I’m easily persuaded to reasonability

Counterplans
“Cheating” counterplans can be useful if they’re well developed, but they’re not very competitive. There is not always a risk of a net benefit. I won’t kick the counterplan for you – when you present it in the 2NR that is the only world you’re going for.

Kritiks
I’m not very good with them – I normally tend to lean aff on questions like framework. However, if your kritik is specific to the affirmative, go for it. Don’t rely on tricks to win you the debate – the aff dropping subpoint j on your overview doesn’t mean you auto win. The aff gets to weigh their impacts and the neg gets to weigh their K. 

Disads
Politics disads are a good thing, even if their internal link is sketch. The aff tends to not do a good job on pressing the neg about the often terrible evidence that they read. Politics theory is meh. Yay disad and case debates!

Theory
Most theory is a reason to reject the argument, not the team
2 conditional advocacies are okay, if they directly contradict it’s probably bad

Be funny and don’t be a jerk – have fun!

I love anduuuu :)
  