
  I am a policy debater for the University of Central Florida. 

Kritiques/K AFFs: When I compete, I read K’s so I am familiar with K’s and K literature. I’m not a fan of messy K debate though, as they become much less persuasive the messier they get. 

Policy: I enjoy watching traditional policy debate, and have read policy AFF’s before. 

T/FW- Make sure you weigh the impacts of why I should vote on your theory arguments. I am definitely sympathetic to the inevitability of K Affs, so strict topicality shells may require more work to convince me. Additionally, I am rarely sympathetic to prep arguments made by the negative if the K aff is something you should be prepped for (ex. Cap, Anti-Blackness, or something closely related to the topic), and I think those arguments are made out of a refusal to engage rather than attempting case turns, method debates, or any other way in which you could actually clash with the K Aff. 

Tech>Truth: I am likely to vote on tech if an argument has been dropped by the other team as long as the internal link chain is at least somewhat coherent. So if you drop an argument, I will still vote for you if you convince me that your impacts outweigh the impacts on the dropped flow. 


Performance debate:  I enjoy performance debate a lot. Just make sure it has a purpose and that your performance is part of your advocacy. I’ve seen teams read a poem that had great potential, but never reference the poem throughout the rest of the 1AC or the entire debate. At that point, you are just wasting valuable speech time. 

Tips: Tagline extending is not enough for me for any form of debate and you should err on the side of explanation. 

Speed is fine, just make sure to slow down on the tags so I know you’re reading a new card. 

Don’t be rude or make sexist, racist, homophobic, ableist, etc. remarks around me. I will dock your speaks and if blatant and unapologetic I will not hesitate to vote you down if the other team in any way indicates I should.
  