
  Hi everyone,

My name is Grayson Clark, I was a four year debater in high school at Lamar Consolidated high school. I am currently a student at the University of Texas, so if you are in Austin you may see me. Below are my paradigms.

General philosophy:

If you ask me in round for my paradigms I will say I am open for anything; it is your round so I will adapt to you. Have fun with the round and make it a good, fun, and educational experience for all of us in the round. I do not care where you speak from, on any other nuances like that. In most cases I do expect for you to keep your own time, but that being said please don't abuse this privilege. This especially involves the transfer of files for paperless team. I do not take prep for flashing files over, but make sure this process is quick, otherwise I will get irritated with you.

Specific Issues:

Speed:

I do not have a problem with speed, go as fast as you want on cards if you can be clear. That being said, I would appreciate it if you slow down for tags and authors so i cant make sure to catch everything, a failure to do this may result in me missing a card which could be harmful to you later in the round. If you are unclear I will say "clear", if you do it again I will begin to deduct speaker points.

Topicality:

I don't mind a good T debate, as long as you actually develop the t throughout the round. Topicality functions as an abuse check, so if the Aff truly is abusive it will do you well to run it in the round. If you choose to go for T in the 2NR I want to see a significant portion of the speech dedicated to the T flow. Make sure to prove your abuse story, especially the standards and limits debate. Tell me exactly why the aff is abusive and why it matters to the round so much. I also find myself rarely buying Spec T's, or silly T's like a colon T.

Disads:

I love a good disad debate. I want to see a specific link story to the Aff coming out of the 1NC. Make sure as the neg that you center the round off of the impact calc for the disad. Even if the disad goes conceded, I still want to see specifically how it functions in the round. As a general rule with me, an overview in the block will do you a lot of good in explaining the link story, don't expect me to hear the tags and make the link story for you. A little analysis will go a long way. Don't just read extra cards for the fun of it, do a little work on the flow.

Counterplans:

I feel that just about all negative strategies should center around some form of advocacy, whether that is a counterplan or a kritik alternative. Generally I am open to all types of counterplans including consults or PICs, but be weary in running those unless you can properly defend the theory behind them.

Kritiks:

I am fully open to any K debate. I am not as well versed in critical literature as I would like, so if you are running anything non typical or over complex, make sure you clearly explain it in the round, and it may help to slow down a tad on a k debate. Make sure each team establishes a clear framework for the round, a k without framework isnt going to go far with me unless you clearly set up how I am to evaluate the round. I expect a K to have an alt, that being said if you are losing the alt debate, you often times can still set the K as a disad to plan action, and if you do enough work on the link and impact flow escape without an alt.

Theory:

Theory is fine, if you are going for it devote a significant chunk of time to it. The rest you can get from my section on T. Win the abuse story.

Performance/Non-traditional cases:

I am fine with whatever you want to run, no matter how unusual it is. Just make sure to establish and win your framework for the round.

Speaker points:

I am not a point fairy, but I am not too harsh either.

On a 30 point scale, my points are as follows:

30: One of the best speakers at the tournament
29: A very polished speaker, keeps the flow clean
28: Either a decent speaker, or the keep the flow clean
27: An average speaker
26: A speaker with significant improvement to make 
25 and under: you did something to cause me to drop your points

Things that can get you more points:

humor (while not being a jerk)
A little analysis every once in a while

Things that can get me to drop you points:

Being EXTREMELY rude
Racism
Offensive statements
Or other things at my discretion

I often times will call for cards after the round, so make sure you can accommodate this.

That was my little take, if you have any other questions ask me in the round.
  