
  Experience
I was a public forum debater for four years at Eagan High School, and am currently an assistant coach at Theodore Roosevelt High School in Des Moines.

 Flowing
I am the epitome of a flow judge. I judge 99% off of the flow and 1% off of common sense. What is on my flow at the end of the round will make my decision for me and I will do my best to make my reasoning clear either on my ballot or orally at the end of the round. If you have any questions, feel free to talk to me and I will do my best to help. 

The Rebuttal 
My preference is that the entire first rebuttal is spent on the opponent’s side of the flow. For both teams, I like to see layered responses and very clear road-mapping, the refutations should cover both the entire contention and also examine specific warrants. The second rebuttal should engage both the opponent’s case as well as the opponent’s responses. Ideally, the time split should be 3:1. I do give a little leeway and accept more cross applications on the other side of the flow to compensate for the time stretch. 
Extend framework if you want me to use it in order to weigh in the summary and final focus. 

Extensions
It’s important to note that to get an argument through to the final focus the team must extend the claim, warrant, and impact. If a single piece is missing then it significantly weakens the point’s weight in the round. If an argument is dropped at any time, it will not be extended and you’d be better off spending your time elsewhere. 

Speed and Speaking
I can flow next to everything in PF and tend not to penalize speed with speaker points. Make sure you enunciate and are clear so that your opponent can understand you, efficiency and eloquence in later speeches will define your speaks.
I like to see strong engagement of the issues in CX and appreciate a deeper analysis than simple clarifying questions. Please be polite and civil and it is everyone’s responsibility to de-escalate the situation as much as possible when it grows too extreme.
Organization through all speeches is essential, and especially paramount in summary. Make sure I know exactly where you are so that I can help you get as much ink on the flow as possible.

30: Excellent job, you demonstrate stand-out organizational skills and speaking abilities. Ability to use creative analytical skills and humor to simplify and clarify the round.
29: Very strong ability. Good eloquence, analysis, and organization. A couple minor stumbles or drops.
28: Above average. Good speaking ability. May have made a larger drop or flaw in argumentation but speaking skills compensate. Or, very strong analysis but weaker speaking skills.
27: About average. Ability to function well in the round, however analysis may be lacking. Some errors made.
26: Is struggling to function efficiently within the round. Either lacking speaking skills or analytical skills. May have made a more important error.
25: Having difficulties following the round. May have a hard time filling the time for speeches. Large error.
Below: Extreme difficulty function. Very large difficulty filling time or offensive or rude behavior.
  