
  Jayde Clark
Years in the activity: 3


I did policy debate one year in high school at Bingham High as well as a year of public forum. I debate policy now at San Diego State University. 


Overview: I like policy to be straight up and I prefer a lot of impact calc. I’ll vote on dropped voters. Have fun, be nice, sound good, be smart. I’m not picky; I’ll vote on pretty much anything. Fine with speed, but slow down on the tags. 


Aff: I prefer straight up topical affs but I’m fine with a K aff, I just haven’t had as much experience with them. Just make sure to allocate time on framework, as well as make your arguments clear . 

Topicality: not my favorite but I’ll vote for it. If I look at the plan text and 90% of people would say its reasonably topical then don’t waste your time going for T. on competing interps I’ll vote for whichever is best for debate. 

Disads: go for it. Be careful with the link debate. Make sure to do impact calc. I won’t do the work for you. Politics da’s are awesome just make sure they are case specific. Generic aff thumpers on politics I will generally vote on. 

Counterplans: do whatevs… I refuse to vote for agent cps bad theory unless neg advocates some random place that the aff clearly is not prepared for. Running agent cps bad on EU, UN etc is a waste. If you have consult cp make sure to be covered on theory debate. I’ll default to the aff if the cp doesn’t have huge net benefit or da attached. 

Kritiks: fine with it. I understand most arguments. Spend time on framework and the alt debate. if k solves the aff then 9/10 times I’ll vote for it. Most reject the aff k’s I’d have a harder time voting for. If it’s offensive i’ll vote for it. 

Performance- never dealt with one before

Theory: don’t be abusive or you will lose on it. I would prefer in round analysis rather than prewritten blocks. I think condo is bad but I probably wouldn’t vote on it unless there is clear in round abuse. 

Speakerpoints: 27.5 is average, 28 is good, 28.5 is very good, 29 is great, 29.5 is excellent, 30 perfect. Ways you can increase your speaker points in front of me include: humor, clarity, development of arguments, and trying to accommodate others within the round. Ways to decrease your points are: stealing prep, being mean, or annoying


Also, with a paperless debate.. once the flash drive is out preptime stops. 
  