
  Branson L. Cobb
Speech & Debate Judge- Houston, Texas Area
(903) 905-2649 - bransoncobb98@gmail.com

 
 Judging Philosophies
  
 Congress
 
I am willing to serve as parliamentarian.

The contestant should never stop adding to the round and advancing the debate. I expect the contestant to ask questions during both AFF and NEG speeches that help to shape the course of the debate. During speeches, the contestant should present new information to the round, as well as address the arguments and points that were brought up during the round- simply reading prepared speeches will not lead to high ranks even if the contestant as solid content. Finally, the speaker should have solid speaking skills and show proper use and knowledge or parliamentarian procuress.

The Proceeding Officer should have a solid understanding of parliamentarian procedure and enforce it’s use within the round. However, the PO should also support and uphold strong academic debate during the entire length of the debate or their time as PO. If the PO is to make a mistake, that is fine as long as they take the appropriate actions within the debate. Finally, the PO should be a friendly face to all debaters that fosters a positive culture and promotes solid, fair, academic debate above all else. Serving as Proceeding Officer of a round does not guarantee that the contestant will be placed in the top eight of the round.


Lincoln-Douglas and Cross-Examination Debate 
 
Both contestants should remember that they have a job/role to do during this academic debate. The contestants should debate each other- not talk at each other or try to receive the round based on some rule. Both sides should present solid evidence and thought to the debate as well as address the other sides arguments. If a contestant presents wonderful information but never addresses the other sides arguments- they have not truly debated and will not receive the round.




    
        Rate of Delivery:

        I should be able to understand ALL words that are said and follow debate.

    
    
        Amount of Evidence:

        The contestant should back up all major claims presented.

    
    
        Appeals:

        The contestant may use either emotional or philosophical claims.

    
    
        Approach to Topic:

        The contestant may approach the topic as philosophical or pragmatic.

    



Extemporaneous Speaking
 
I use a 50/50 method when judging Extemporaneous- speaking ability counts for 50% of the contestants rank and content counts for 50% of the contestant’s rank.

The contestant’s speech should be well-organized and easy to follow, have solid content/evidence, and analysis of the given topic. If a contestant simply list facts for the duration of the time, they will be ranked lower than someone who did not have as strong of evidence but provided analysis and thought of the subject. No matter the form of extemp, the speech should be engaging, informative (even in a persuasive event), well planned, and easy to follow/understand.


Impromptu Speaking
 
I use a 50/50 method when judging Impromptu- speaking ability counts for 50% of the contestants rank and content counts for 50% of the contestant’s rank.

The contestant’s speech should be easy to follow, have original thought, be well organized, and be enjoyable to listen to overall. Presentation style/ability and content are equally important during the round. Humor does not automatically mean that the individual will be ranked higher- but it will not keep them from being ranked high.
 

  