
  Current head coach at Homewood-Flossmoor High School.

Policy Debater for 4 years in HS (Sandburg)
4 years of Policy in college (Augustana 1 year, NIU 3 years) 
8 years assisting a team with Lincoln-Douglas and PF.

LINCOLN-DOUGLAS

When it comes to LD, I am definitely more traditional even though I've spent a lot of time in policy. I don't believe there should be plans or disads. I think the idea of LD becoming 1 person policy is unfortunate. LD should be about negating or affirming the res, not plan creation. You should probably have a value and value criterion that is used to evaluate the round. I have judged LD often on the local circuit in IL. Even with all that being said --- If I find myself in a round that does none of the above, I will still evaluate the round based on what is presented. I probably won't be thrilled, but I will still evaluate it fairly.

POLICY
IF YOU LISTEN TO NOTHING ELSE, PLEASE ENSURE THERE IS A CLEAR DISTINCTION BETWEEN CARDS AND TAGS

First and foremost, I am an advocate of resolution specific debate. We have a yearly resolution for a reason. I don't believe running arguments that stay the same year after year is educational. 2015 example: Your affirmative should have some connection to domestic surveillance.

Topicality – I like T. I think the problem with it is that not enough explanation occurs of the actual abuse the Neg faces and debaters fly through it so fast that it is impossible to catch each argument. I feel like there should be some legit abuse or at the very least major pot. abuse.

Theory - ugh. I know debate can't live without it so I'll say this.....I'm pretty lenient with multiple conditional arguments that aren't extremely ridiculous.

Kritiks -- Most of the common K's are fine by me. I am not well read in K literature. I will not pretend to understand your K. If you fail to explain it well enough for me and at the end of the debate I don't understand it, I will not vote for it. I will likely tell you it's because I don't understand. I will not feel bad about it. 

My Flow – line-by-line. It's a thing...do it.

1. BE CLEAR. If you are fast but not clear, I am not flowing. You can go as fast as your mouth and lungs will let you, but if you are not clear it will most likely be detrimental to you. I will say clear twice. If you don't adjust I will probably stop flowing.

1A. Make sure there is a clear distinction between tags and cards

2. Speed --- Be clear and it isn't a problem.

3. There is a difference between being aggressive and being rude. Aggressive ok, Rude not ok.
  