
  Ovservation 1- I am giving away my time so you dont get screwed in judging so please dont waste it.
Ovservation 2- If i was not here i would be sleeping or progressing mircopolitical movements.
Cross examination is for the use of examining what your opponent said or gain ground; this means that you may not use CX as prep. CX may be extended in prep for the purposes of clarification if you don’t understand something or miss it on the flow.
Extensions can be made by simply stating "Extend X" only when they were dropped. If not un-attacked you must show me why to drop the attack and listen to your argument.
Voting is based on my flow. Voting is always controversial in debate, you must tell me how to weigh and view the round otherwise it is up to my interpretation which you could disagree with. In college policy you can argue with the judge about the round and winner, often changing the decision, so your time to do that is in your speech.
Speaker points are based actually off speaking, winning doesn’t mean you speak well. Here's how it breaks down, 30 speaks (reguardless of speed) equals clear, precise, confident, and educated. You can change this by running in round theory.
Ethics are key to me in round and out. Prepping out opponents is a method for those who know they are truly win, if your better then you will win. Miss-cutting evidence, creating it, and lying is always a loss in my books (you don’t want someone to do it to you so don’t do it to them)
Cases can consist of any thing that you would like to. I accept any forms as well. Although i will never interject my own opinions into a round, I like more abstract arguments and unique positions rather than stock. Extinction is caused by anything so try some different more unique ones please. Theory is also accepted but I do have conditions on it, it must be well warranted and created so just don’t call abuse for everything
Speed is alright in any debate event on the condition that it is clear and precise. Spreading to overwhelm youropponent i see as a cheap way to try and win because you couldn’t win the round otherwise. Please slow down for Tags and Card names.

P.S. Dont worry to much and let debate get you mad because in the end life will continue with out it, Hakuna Matta-
  