
  Background: I am a college student forensics competitor. This is my fourth year of speech and my second year of debate. I compete in a form of policy debate known as LD. 

I believe that the debate is yours to be had, but there are a few things that you should know:

1. Blippy, warrantless debates are mind numbing. If you do not have a warrant to a claim, then you do not have an argument even if they drop it. This usually occurs at the top of the AC/NC when you are trying to be "clever." Less "clever," more intelligent. I do not evaluate claims unless there are no real arguments in a round. Remember that a full argument consists of a claim supported by warrants with evidence.

2. I DO NOT evaluate speed! I believe that this is a communication event, so you must be a proficient communicator and you should be able to communicate your ideas clearly in the amount of time given without having to use speed. I vote based on the flow, so if you do speed and I don’t flow something, I won’t vote on it. 

3. You should probably use your criterion or don't have one. I will be using your criterion to weigh all impacts, so if your impacts are not related to criterion, I won’t vote on it. 

4. I often vote for the one argument I can find that actually has an impact. I do not like moral obligations as I do not believe that they are usually warranted and I caution you in running these in front of me. I do not believe that all impacts have to go to extinction or nuclear war, but that they should be quantifiable in some manner.

5. Run whatever strategy you want--I will do my best to evaluate whatever you give me in whatever frame I'm supposed to--if you don't give me the tools...I default to policy maker, if it's clearly not a policy maker paradigm round for some reason I'll make something up to vote on...basically, your safest bet is to tell me where to vote.

6. If you are rude, I will not hesitate to tank your speaker points. There is a difference between confidence and rudeness.

7. If you are going to run a kritik you need to ensure you have all the parts and explain it very clearly. Those parts are: framework, impacts, links, an alternative, alt solvency, and a role of the ballot argument (lacking any of these will make it hard for me to vote)...I also think you should explain what the post alt world looks like and how my ballot functions to get us there. Basically, you need to spell any K argument out to me in order for me to understand the impact and even consider voting on it.

8. If you are going to run a CP and a kritik you need to tell me which comes first and where to look. You may not like how I end up ordering things, so the best option is to tell me how to order the flow.

9. Impact calc is a MUST. This is the best way to ensure that I'm evaluating what you find to be the most important in the round.

10. Number or letter your arguments. The word "Next" is not a number or a letter. Doing this will make my flow neater and easier to follow and easier for you to sign post and extend in later speeches.



Really, I'm open to anything. Debate, have fun, and be engaging.
  