
  UPDATED: 09/18/17

I have been coaching at duPont Manual HS in Louisville, KY for 3 years. I used to do college LD so I am pretty familiar with the general format of debate.

LD PARADIGM:
TL;DR: Please do not make any arguments that justify racism, sexism, or homophobic practices. Other than that, I will flow any argument, but in order to win an impact it has to make sense be it Theory, Ks, or Extinction. Please just make sure they make sense. If I don't understand it, then you probably don't understand it either.
 I enjoy K debates, especially Race Ks and Capitalism Ks. Anthro K’s are not as convincing to me. I understand most other args such as DAs and CPs.Do not use abbreviated jargon because I am still learning how to apply jargon to my RFDs. For example, use CONDITIONAL instead of CONDO, or Topical(ity) instead of T, or PLAN INCLUSIVE COUNTER PLANS BAD instead of PICS… Sorry, but it will make the ultimate difference because I will be able to follow my flow.I am a flow judge.I will call clear if I cannot understand you, and I won’t take off of speaker points after the first few times, but I will be annoyed if you don't clear after I call.Please stand to MY RIGHT side because I am deaf in my left ear. SO, if you are facing me, please spread or speak standing to the left side of the room. I will always try to sit in the center of the debate. I have had experience judging CX at UPenn, PF at several national tournaments such as Bronx and Chengdu, China, and I used to do traditional LD debate in high school and at Indiana University for a year. I hate Theory Debate…I will deal with it, however. It just might take me a bit longer to articulate an RFD, so don’t be surprised if it takes me a long time to come up with an RFD. Theory just makes me feel uneasy. I love progressive LD, and spreading is fine with me. Just be LOUD, CLEAR, and SIGN POST along the way. Also, give me an off time road map before each speech, please. Traditional debate is wonderful too, however, I DO look for SOLVENCY. Counterplans are also valued by me.For PF, I value both long term and short impacts, but I need the debaters to weigh the round. Make it very clear to me what your voters are. For LD, I need you to uphold your framework or give me a Role of the Ballot. Make it very clear, and repeat it for me so I am sure to catch it/them.I base speaker points on several different factors. This includes clarity of speaking, presentation, projection, and the ability to debate strategically. Impact your arguments and tell me why they matter. Pick the most important arguments and tell me the reasons I should vote for it.
PF PARADIGM:
This is still a work in progress. I will get back to you as soon as possible.

If you have any questions please contact me at 502-572-4635 or erica.cooper@jefferson.kyschools.us.
  