
  West High School, SLC, UT
Competed 2008-2012 (LD)
Coach 2014-Present (LD, PF, Speech)

Public Forum (TOC 2016)
I am willing to vote just about anywhere so long as your argument is well warranted and well explained. Be sure to spend the time necessary to sufficiently explain your argument and how it functions in the round. Voters and a big picture crystallization of the round are very helpful. Failing to provide these forces me to decide where to look, which may not work out in your favor. If you fail to provide me with some sort of functional evaluative framework (please don't do this), I default to a comparative worlds paradigm.

Being rude to your opponent or running blatantly offensive arguments (sexist, racist, homophobic, biphobic, transphobic, ableist, classist, etc.) is guaranteed to lose you speaker points and generally piss me off. Don't be a jerk and we should be fine.

Lincoln Douglas
In short:

I am comfortable with both traditional and progressive styles of LD and generally leave it up to you as the debater to tell me where the round should go.

I am willing to vote just about anywhere so long as your argument is well warranted and well explained. In general, don't assume that I'm familiar with the specifics of whatever it is that you're running. Spend the time necessary to sufficiently explain your argument and how it functions in the round. Voters and a big picture crystallization of the round are very helpful. Failing to provide these forces me to decide where to look, which may not work out in your favor. If you fail to provide me with some sort of functional evaluative framework (please don't do this), I default to a comparative worlds paradigm.

Being rude to your opponent or running blatantly offensive arguments (sexist, racist, homophobic, biphobic, transphobic, ableist, classist, etc.) is guaranteed to lose you speaker points and generally piss me off. Don't be a jerk and we should be fine.


Some Specifics:

Non-standard Argumentation and Structure 
These are great as long as you are able to explain how it functions in the round and provide some sort of framework that allows me to weigh arguments and evaluate the round. I'm more than happy to hear and vote on new or obscure arguments or philosophy, but please be aware that I'm not always familiar with whatever it is you're running. In these cases, it's helpful if you're able to provide a short, slow(er) summary/explanation of your argument and how it functions that the average judge/opponent can understand.

Speed
Speed is fine as long as you are clear. SLOW DOWN FOR TAGLINES and anything particularly important. If I can't understand you, I will call "clear" or "slow". Please, please, please signpost as you go. If I can't get it on the flow, I won't vote on it.

Theory
If you're going to run theory, be sure that there is significant in round abuse happening. Running unnecessary theory (if you're already clearly winning on substance, when you're hitting a novice who clearly doesn't understand theory, for the sole purpose of creating a time skew, etc.) will not lose you the round, but it will make me very grumpy and will hurt your speaks.

Ks
Kritiks are fine and I'm happy to vote on them. Don't assume that I'm familiar with specifics and be sure to explain clearly how it functions in the round.

Voters
Give them.
Weigh impacts, tell me where to look first (especially if there are multiple Ks, theory shells, a priori issues, etc.), weigh framework, whatever you need to do to tell me how the round breaks down. I especially appreciate some sort of overview/underview/big picture breakdowns -- doubly so if it's an intense line-by-line or super technical debate. The less work you make me do on the flow, the better it's going to be for you.

Style/Logistics
I'm fine with just about anything you want to do as far as style is concerned. Sit, stand, do cartwheels, read from a computer, a tablet, paper, a phone -- it doesn't matter to me. Flex prep, requesting cases/evidence flashed, etc. are all welcome. I am the world's worst time signaller, so it's probably in your best interest to time yourself. If you have any specific requests or questions, feel free to ask.

I disclose and will provide critiques on the ballot and/or orally as time allows.


Updated 2/8/16
  