
   I believe it is best to disclose the bad news first. I work for the non-partisan research and fiscal agency of the Ohio General Assembly. As such, I cannot engage in behaviors that could call into question my non-partisan affiliation. What this means for debate is that if your argument would likely ruffle the feathers of a politician who has no understanding of thought experiments, then I cannot endorse it. Specifically, proposals that reject the state, reject capitalism, etc. There is no specific topic area this excludes, rather it excludes some arguments used to justify topical cases. Use your judgment, and if you have to think more than five seconds about it, either go with a different argument or strike me. 
If you've made it this far, I have good news. I have a unique connection to this topic, in that if your plan were implemented I would likely be the person for the State of Ohio that would write up the fiscal analysis for the bill implementing your plan. You get to argue in front of a real-life government official who knows how things work in the real world. Congratulations?
In terms of specific debate mechanics, I have certain preferences. Conditionality itself doesn't bother me. Performative contradictions do. There is no reason one cannot assemble arguments that do not contradict across multiple worlds on a topic with this much literature. Also, if the affirmative makes a ‘conditionality bad’ argument, I interpret each conditional argument as a violation until I’m told to think otherwise. Another thing that rustles my jimmies is when people read into their laptop rather than into the room. I will say clear once, then the second time I will lay down my pen until you start making sense. This does mean I flow on paper, so rest assured that I am listening to your argument and not goofing around on my laptop.
Lastly, I'm not well-versed in much of the critical literature, so if you are going to run a philosophically-oriented argument above a 7th grade reading level it would be best to assume I have no idea what you are talking about because I probably don't. I'm not going to pretend I understand your argument for the sake of making myself look smart. If you need further clarification, feel free to ask before the round.
  