
  I am not a former debater, but am the head debate coach at Clovis East High School. 

Speed: I do not believe that "spreading" provides for a valuable debate, but I can keep up with a fairly fast pace. You may speak as quickly as you would like, and if I feel that you are speaking too fast I will simply raise my hand. The most important thing when it comes to speed is clarity.

Arguments: I do my best to come into round tabula rasa. With that in mind, I expect debaters to be respectful of their opponents, and the activity by ensuring that the arguments they make are valid, and supported by evidence. I do not believe that an abundance of evidence determines a winner, but rather the quality of a piece of evidence. I believe strongly in the value of evidence, and expect use of evidence to be factual and accurate. If an opponent is able to bring into question the cutting of your card I will find that to be an extremely dishonest approach to debate, and will almost definitely discount the rest of your case accordingly. Please be prepared to provide any evidence to your opponent. An inability to provide evidence will also be viewed as a misrepresentation of the information. 

I believe that the cross examination time often is when a case loses the most ground, and regularly find the best arguments are made during this time. I expect strong clash, but also respect between competitors. Do your best to maintain decorum within the round. The best way to convince me that you are winning is to go down flow. hit your opponent's points carefully, and give me a definitive answer to why they are wrong. 

I am fine with any type of argumentation (theory, kritik, etc.) so long as the debater is capable of validating the reasoning and points made within the argument. I want to be able to link every step of the argument back to the initial resolution in round. In responding to attacks on case, I expect to hear an explanation, rather than a reiteration. Simply saying that you provided evidence of something does not equate to why their evidence is inapplicable as a turn to your case. 

If you have any specific questions you are welcome to ask me before the round starts.
  