
  Lincoln-Douglas Debate

Paradigm:
In Lincoln-Douglas Debate, there should be a combination of philosophy and hard evidence. Values and Criterions should be clear, but don' t be afraid to be creative. Throughout your speech, think about the "So What" factor. I want to know why your evidence and Criterions connect to your VC and your V. Show me the big picture and make the links clear.

Case:
I encourage all types of cases from complete philosophy to a key combination of philosophy and empirical evidence. However, make sure that your are clear in your delivery. Feel free to talk at just about any speed; I have no preference here. For the AFF, this is your first impression, so make it a good one, especially with the burden of proof. As the debate goes on from speech to speech, provide road maps along the way. Don't flip back and forth between cases. Remember, the judge is the most important person in the room, so by telling them where you are going, you are allowing them to follow your argument more closely. Show any deficiencies of your opponent's case along the way, and don't be afraid to continually highlight those deficiencies from speech to speech. By bringing up the problem each time, your opponent is forced to spend more time defending than attacking.

Cross-Examinations:
There are two major concepts that must be achieved through the CX. First, clarify any contentions or pieces of evidence your are unsure of from your opponent's case. If you neglect to do this, you will probably drop contentions which will leave you at a distinct disadvantage. Second, calculated questions about your opponent's argument are key. Don't be afraid to drive home certain points. This is the time to show the weaknesses in your opponent's case. If CX is used effectively, I will have a clear idea as to what your attacks may be along the way and you should have the upper hand to some extent as we move forward to the next speech.

Voting Issues:
When it comes to your final speech, your voting issues should be clear cut, concise, and to the point. Confusing or unprepared voting issues will make it hard for a final decision in your favor. This is your time to show me that you have found the weaknesses in your opponents argument and that your case is far-superior to your opponent's. You final words are just as important as your first impression.
  