
  Hi everyone!

I am a senior at Florida State University where I've recently started debating policy. I went to Fort Lauderdale High and did speech for a year and then LD for three years; competing nationally on both levels.

LD: I've always liked a more of a traditional type of Lincoln Douglas debate, very heavily based on standard and outweighing based on the standards. The best way to win a round with my is to win offensive arguments and link them back to your standard and outweigh on impact, probability, something. I know that the style of LD has changed dramatically since the time I first started debating and I'm very comfortable with other "policy" types of argumentation, but because of my policy background I am also very aware of how these arguments should be structured and will not vote on sloppily run kritiques, counterplans, disads or any other policy type arguments.

Policy: I am fairly new to policy but have been a very quick learner because of my previous debate experience. I've always loved policy and because of my LD experience I've taking a liking to a more "kritical" type of debate so I'm open to vote on that. But of course I'm open to a more policy oriented round. Policy is a pretty much anything goes thing, if you have a link and a warrant for it, go for it!

Overall, I am ok with speed but if you are unclear I will warn you once, after that I'll stop flowing which may or may not hurt you in the long run. I wont usually read evidence unless there has been A LOT of clash over a specific card; its your job as a debater to point out warrant or link flaws in evidence. I'm ok with pretty informal rounds, you don't have to stand, you don't have to treat me like I'm 30, I'm a college student so I understand how it is debating all day. I do prefer that you face me at least while speaking because it makes it easier to hear you and I'm a very easy to read person, so I nod my head, shake my head, smile, all types of different things to let you know how you're doing or how your opponent is doing. Lastly and most importantly, I flow all rounds (on paper, with multiple colored pens) and if you say "4 off, I'm pulling out 4 sheets of paper) and YOU HAVE TO SIGN POST! Thats the only way I'll be able to flow the arguments on the right flows.

If you have any other questions please feel free to ask before the round starts :)
  