
  Hey, my name is Madelaine Czufin, and I am a Junior at UPenn. I do not debate in college, however I debated on the national circuit in high school. Therefore, I will understand what your arguments are, but I am definitely a bit rusty (particularly with speed) so beware of that. 

Flow judge, default policymaker if nobody tells me what else the role of the ballot should be. Which is almost never. Debate should be fun, so have fun. 

DO NOT BE RUDE! There is a fine line between being an aggressive debater and just being disrespectful. Plesase do not cross that line. 

Speed: I haven’t debated in a while, however, I am definitely able to keep up with clear speed. If I can’t understand you I will stop writing and say clear. Definitely better to be slower than faster to ensure I am getting down everything. 

Stuff:

Honestly you sound much clearer standing, but I am cool with people sitting during CX if you prefer. I'm fine with your partner helping you out with an answer but they should not be dominating.

Help me with my flow. "Mark this card, circle this argument, put a star on this, etc." If you want to hammer in a big point, just say “Listen." I'll look up and you'll have my full attention.

Overviews make me happy. Global overviews, local overviews, an overview of how your day is going... Take 20 seconds to explain what your case/argument is and why you win it (impact calc, dropped args, etc.) in a way that someone's grandma can understand it and you'll be set.

Specifics:

T: I'd rather hear one or two good T than five of them for the sake of time skew. If you go for T in the 2NR, then do 5 minutes of work on T (Terminal impacts to untopicality?)

Theory: Need warrants and impacts like all other arguments. Slow down. If your 20 point theory block is super blippy and jargony I'm not gonna flow it very well.

K: 1. Win framework & role of ballot (SLOW DOWN???) 2. Alt needs to have text. I am not familiar with performance. But if that is your thing cool by me as long as you give sufficient negative ground and tell me how to vote. 3. Demonstrate understanding of the root philosophy.

CP: CP text must be non-topical, textually and functionally competitive. Advantage counterplans and PICs are fine. 

DA: If it's crazy or politics, give me an overview. Do what you want as long as your internals work. Do impact calculus. I'm fine with non-terminal impacts if you warrant why I should prefer them over terminal impacts.

Questions: email mczufin@sas.upenn.edu
  