
  Speech and Debate Coach
Dallastown High School in Dallastown, PA

Etiquette stuff:
1. Send me your case. My email is tadacheux@gmail.com Do so, and I will listen to spreading. Fail to send me your case, and I'll probably get distracted by the bright-shiny objects in the room. My attention span is limited and I tend to focus better when I have the organized text in front of me. 

2. I do not care if you sit, stand, or perform yoga poses while you speak. I vaguely care that you remain in the room, but other than that, I'm good.

3. I don't time the debate or prep time. You will want to time yourself and your opponent to keep things fair. If you allow your opponent to speak for 20 minutes, that's a tactical error on your part. Cross-apply this to prep time as well. Flex prep is fine as long as your opponent(s) agree.

4. I would prefer not to shake hands. I'm sure you are clean and germ-free, but hey, let's not take any chances.

5. I do pay attention to what you say to your opponent(s) and vice-versa before the round. Don't be shady.

Debater Stuff:
1. I will entertain pretty much any argument that is well-supported. I will listen to Kritiks, Counterplans, Plans. You have to show me how they link to this round/resolution. I tend to like empirically-supported arguments.

2. I tend to dislike theory debates. However, I will vote on theory if it is legitimate, which is about 0.001% of the time. Essentially, I don't particularly like it. Please don't run it unless there is literally NO OTHER WAY to respond to your opponent's arguments. I'll evaluate it if I have to...but if you are looking for a lucid or engaging oral critique on theory, you should find a different judge.

3. Do not assume that I will understand the nuances of dense, obscure philosophy. I'm most comfortable with feminist theory over more traditional philosophy. If you can explain it, I will listen, though - but the burden to explain is YOURS. 

4. Signposting = GOOD! Flipping back and forth from AFF flow to NEG flow then back to AFF Flow to NEG Flow....BAD....VERY, VERY, VERY BAD!
  