
  Lincoln-Douglas Judging Philosophy
Carrie Daily
Perry H.S., Massillon, OH
 
Experience: 
I am in my 10th year of coaching L-D. I debated in high school from 1992-1995 in both policy and L-D.
 
Attitudes concerning L-D practices:
 
Speaking Skills:
Although I know that debate is a persuasive activity, I do not feel that the rate of delivery or the “persuasiveness” of the speaking is reason alone for someone to win/lose a round. However, I must be able to understand your arguments. I will say “clear” one or two times if I cannot understand you.
 
Values/Standards/Clash:
I do think that the values/standards debate is key. Without an emphasis on this (especially a crystallization of this debate in the rebuttals) I have no way of weighing the abstract values (or any of the arguments in support of these values) that each side has presented. Clash is important! I feel that many debates end up being won or loss on dropped arguments/strategy, and that clash has fallen by the wayside. How sad!
 
Support for ideas:
I do not have a preference for what a debater uses to support her/his case. Evidence, examples, and philosophies, in my opinion, would all be important and useful!
Whether the debater takes a philosophical or more pragmatic approach is totally up to her/him.
 
Burdens in an L-D round:
For both the affirmative and negative, I feel that winning the VP debate is a burden. Concerning burdens, however, I feel that aff/neg can win this debate using multiple methods. Challenging the opponent’s value to strengthen ones own (and winning one’s own), winning both values, or subsuming the opponent’s value would all be valid ways to meet one’s burden in the round. It is therefore extremely important in final rebuttals to tell me how and why you are winning the round, why you can’t lose, why your opponent isn’t winning, etc. If you do not clarify in final rebuttals, I will be left to my own devices in deciding what issues/arguments are important, which ultimately leads to debaters being upset. Make my decision for me! 
 
Definitions:
Unless the negative challenges the affirmative’s definitions (T), I would not factor definitions into my decision. 
  