
  JUDGING PARADIGM - JAMES D'AMBROSIO

I'm in my second year of judging with a solid grasp of the role(s) of the Affirmative (Aff) and Negative (Neg) putting forth arguments illustrating why they won the debate. I am a traditionalist when it comes to judging debates: Cases should have a value and a criterion, and I should need only one (1) sheet of paper to flow the Aff and another for the Neg. Arguments should be topical. I understand there's more complicated arguments such as a 'kritik' or 'disadvantage,' but arguments can be successfully run within the traditional value and criterion framework.
Tell me, exactly, how to vote on the round in the NR and 2AR, explaining why your voting issues are superior to your opponent's. I want the round to be resolvable without having to rely solely on weighting the arguments. If I have to do that, someone may be very disappointed. I don't want that to happen.

JUDGING BACKGROUND: I judge in local and regional LD tournaments in the Northeast and judge 20-30 rounds per school year.

The following behaviors will negatively impact your rating:

ETIQUETTE: Zero tolerance for aggressive, bullying behaviors towards an opponent. Debaters should show respect and courtesy towards opponents at all times. 
RATE OF SPEECH: The National Center for Voice & Speech indicates that public speakers, on average, speak 150-160 words per minute. Rushing to fit in every possible argument will hurt your score. Speak in a clear, concise manner and explain your strongest evidence/arguments in ways a general audience could understand, because, just in my second year, I won't be able to fully grasp more advanced concepts such as 'spreading.' 
JARGON: Use of debate jargon will also hurt your score. Don't use terms that only more experienced judges would understand. I have a working knowledge of basic terms, but it's much safer to just explain what you mean (I'm still learning the intricacies of LD Debate). 
TRICKS: Refrain from using any technique(s) that makes it impossible for your opponent to compete on an equal footing. Such behaviors are unprofessional & ill-advised. Again, this will cost you. Debate on substance; debate about debate is frowned upon.
BIGOTRY: I will not tolerate any blatant racism, sexism, or anything of the like. This will make it nearly impossible for you to win.


The following behaviors will HELP your rating: 
 
Show some creativity and resourcefulness by trying something new (within debate rules) that you've recently learned or did not implement last year. I know you want to win, but in the big picture, you're honing your debate skills for college and beyond. Make a deposit on your future.
Show some humility -- acknowledge excellence. If you're opponent does something particularly well or makes a very good point, tell them and tell me. As you should know from reading this, I reward outstanding professionalism. If more adults did this, we'd have less problems in society.
 
In light of the above, maximize your rating by playing it straight -- make strong arguments and let them speak for themselves. Just as you've put many hours into preparing your arguments, I've spent quite a few preparing and want to get this right to support the tournament. My only goal is to make fair evaluations and decisions -- let's work together to make that happen.

CONTEXT: I'm a communications professional with an advanced degree in communication theory and significant experience in public relations in nonprofit and the public sector. The above guidance, in part, is the result of many years of experience implementing interpersonal and employee communication plans/strategies.

James D'Ambrosio 
  