
  I have been coaching and judging for thirteen years at the local, regional and circuit level for BCC.


My Thoughts on Debate:

I vote based on my understanding of the round. That being said speed is fine but I enjoy having some differentiation in tone. I am also a speech teacher and do believe that there is value in remembering that this is a speech activity. I like to keep my flow from getting messy yet somehow debate after debate that is where it ends up. At least half of the time it is my fault. So keeping me entertained helps me follow and flow the argument. Performing your speech reminds me that you are talking about something very important. There is a limit to useful speed. If you are gifted with 550 word a minute speech you may not want to steamroll through every speech to prove it to me. Last year at NFL's ICW did a great job of providing speed so they didn't drop an argument but also acknowledging that there were judges in the back looking to vote for someone.

Type of debates that I like:

I like good debates, and I reward debaters that have intelligent affirmatives with specific internal link stories and introduce impact stories. I also like debates where the negative creates crafty negative strategies that demonstrate a grasp of the case and how to beat the case specifically having a link story that shows the inherent problems specific to that affirmative. The 

Specifics:

Flashing-I don’t take prep for flashing but I become annoyed at excessive flashing. I am old and miss paper.

Theory- Be clear, I hear all sorts of theory I just don't want it to get jumbled on my flow (see above). T is a Voter I default to giving aff the benefit of the doubt unless there is in round abuse. Hard for me to believe that an AFff is untopical and that you couldn't possibly have prepared for it in a world in which said team has posted their aff on the Wiki six months ago and debated you at each of the last three tournaments. Let's not waste time there is good debate to be had.

K Debate- I used to love K debate and miss it. Be clear, be true, and realize that I am going to apply your arguments to my smell test. (I am old)
I am willing to vote on Perf Con and wish more teams would take a chance.


DA, CP, Case- The evidence is key. Good evidence had better actually be good if you are calling on me to read it at the end of the round. Having a super power tagged card that isn't warranted could cost you the debate.

Alternative/Performance- as a coach in the Urban Debate League I see these debates a lot. I enjoy impacted debates that teach. Education is primary.
This is a speaking activity and every action can be seen as part of that speech act but it is up to you to make that argument.
  