
  December 2015
I debated for Hockaday (TX) for four years on both national and local circuits and graduated in 2012. I taught at TDC and coached College Prep in 2012. Since then, I've mostly been out of the debate community. 

Decision Calculus: I need a way to compare different arguments to each other. Call it whatever you want, you need to have one, and you need to justify why it’s a good one (or at least, better than your opponent's). 

Extensions: My requirements for them are relative -- yours just need to be better than your opponent’s. Also, explain the implications of your extensions: what is the function of each argument? Why do I care about it? Weigh early. This is key for high speaks. 

Speed: It is in your interest to go slow. I’ll only call for evidence to verify claims about its misrepresentation, and I won’t vote on arguments I don’t understand/never heard a warrant for. I’ll call slow twice.

Theory and topicality: It needs to be warranted and the decision calculus (voter) needs to be justified. RVIs need to be justified. Please signpost clearly.

LARP/empirical debate: I hate power-tagged and/or miscut cards. I love good evidence. I love good evidence comparison. Have your methodology at the ready!

Critiques: I haven’t read a lot of the literature, so go slowly and be sure to articulate the links, impacts, and decision calculus. 

In general: Be respectful of your opponent. I take this seriously.

Speaker points: I’ll start at 27. I’ll go higher for smart arguments, clear implications, and good time management. I’ll go lower for the opposite.

Finally: I'm a very expressive person, so you'll be able to tell whether (I think) I understand and follow your audience by looking at my face. I'll look confused if I don't understand your argument, or I'll look bored if I think I do and think you're reiterating a point I already understand. To maximize your effectiveness during your speeches, I suggest you look up every now and again. 

If you have any questions, feel free to ask at the tournament or by email: kdannenmaier@gmail.com . 
  