
  I debated LD at Cy Woods but haven’t been very active in the community for a while.

I would like to consider myself pretty competent in most things so complex cases and arguments shouldn’t be a problem and neither is speed. That being said, look up every once in a while and make sure that I haven’t lost you. Emphasize anything you want me to pay special attention to and I will make sure to flow that carefully.

Defaulting: I don’t like saying that I default to this or that paradigm because I don’t want to seem inflexible. But I am more comfortable assessing comparative worlds.

I’m pretty open when it comes to arguments, if you want to run it I will listen. I will vote for any intelligent argument that is well warranted and well explained. I like policy arguments and kritiks. When it comes to dense philosophies or complicated frameworks don’t assume that I will fully understand how it interacts with different arguments in the round, I’m going to need you do some weighing and thorough explaining, I can’t vote for it if I don’t understand it.

Theory: I will vote for theory but only if the abuse story is well fleshed out and unique and it isn’t some stock argument that is obviously pre written (poorly so). I will only reject the debater if you give me a really good justification to do so, otherwise I will only reject the argument. I don’t love or hate RVIs, I think that a counter interpretation will need it more often than not though. And I think that offensive counter interpretations are not really strategic but you do what you think is best.

Framework: If you give me something to evaluate the round by and you win the justification for it that is how I will evaluate the round. I am not a stickler for traditional frameworks or a stock value/value criterion system.

Weighing/Extensions/ evidence analysis: I don’t feel as if people do these things enough in debate rounds. And please don’t assume that I will do any of these things for you. I will give leniency to the 1AR because of time constraints but that doesn’t mean that you can leave arguments unanswered or don’t have to put in the work. Don’t read 15 cards and leave it at that, tell me what that does and why it is important in the round. Otherwise it is just going to be floating on my flow. (Emphasize names and tags to make sure that I get it please)

Advocacy: I think advocacy is really important, even if you advocate the resolution I think something should be done

Decorum: I don’t care if you sit to read off your laptop just make sure that you are sitting up straight and I can hear you.

Speaker points: I will say clear or slow down a few times but if I don’t think that you are paying attention or heeding my advice then I will just stop flowing. You will notice. You will not be docked for the first few times I correct you. You will be docked if you are rude to your opponent or me or say something that is offensive or morally reprehensible.

Please feel free to ask me anything before the round! Have fun, this is a wonderful activity that affords a unique learning experience and I want to make sure that debaters enjoy their time in round and make the most of it.

I will do my best to fairly assess any round. I take judging very seriously, I know how important this activity is to a lot of people and so I will give you my full effort and attention.
  