
  I debated for Westwood High School for four years. This is my first year judging varsity policy debate. I haven't judged that much on the topic, so don't assume I know the literature base that well.

I evaluate rounds on impact comparison and what I am told to vote on. Make the analysis in your speeches, rather than simply "read the evidence after the round." You can speak fast as long as it doesn't interfere with your clarity. You will most likely lose speaker points by being rude, but I enjoy humor. I don't consider myself to have any favoritism towards certain types of arguments. If you call me ma'am I will punch you in the face. If you have questions after reading this, you can ask before round, just make sure they're specific.

Topicality
I'll vote on topicality if there is a reasonable impact based on the standards debate. For example, if your impact is research burden you must tell me what else you have to research and why you wouldn't have to absent the plan or aff counter interpretation. If it's a grammar argument, explain in context with the resolution since I haven't judged a lot on the topic.
Counterplans
I prefer counterplan debates don't come down to theory debates although I don't discourage making the arguments and it always makes sense to go for them if the counterplan really is ridiculous. Other than that, I enjoy counterplan debates when the counterplan solves most of the plan and there's a net benefit. Pretty simple.
Disads
I like disads. If the disad really does turn the case I'll vote on it without a counterplan. Specific links analysis in the 2NR is useful. I'm not really a fan of politics but I'll listen to it. Tell a story if you're running politics and vote counts are generally persuasive.
Kritiks
Kritik debates are only good with specific links and analysis about the plan. You will not win my ballot with generic topic kritiks, but I am willing to vote on a persuasively argued kritik with impact comparison SPECIFIC TO THE PLAN.
Theory
I don't enjoy theory debates but I'll listen to them. You must impact theory debates for me to vote on them with examples from the round. Precedent setting is generally not an impact to me.
  