
  Jonni Davis
Current School Affiliation: Arlington High School
Baylor University (’78)
Eastern Hill High School (’74)
Debate = reasoned, logical examination of issues on opposing or clashing sides of a topic through effective communication, clearly presented and relevant evidence using precise diction.
LD is value debate. I look for and, frankly, expect a value, clearly delineated and upheld through the case and contentions. The criterion should provide the means by which the value is achieved or upheld in the round. I look for unity of your value, criterion and contentions throughout the round. Your contentions are important as the support for your argument, but only as far as they do support and link back to the value and criterion.
I am interested in your evidence and supporting information; however, I expect you to link your evidence to your value/criterion with clear analysis and commentary.
I will flow to the best of my ability. However, if you speak too fast, you risk your points not making it onto my flow. On a scale of 1-10, I place myself about 5 for speed. That said, I have a strong belief that LD, and debate in general, is about effective communication of the above. Speed for the sake of speed is NOT effective communication. Monotone speaking is not effective communication. This is not interp, but you should practice the English language with more skill than a computer-animated voice.
LD is persuasive in nature. To be persuasive you must articulate both words and phrases for clarity and comprehension.
I will not make your argument for you. If you didn’t present it in the round, it isn’t on the table. Make sure you state why I should cross apply or why you are winning the debate, not just “because my opponent dropped my contention 2.” Tell me where you are on the flow; then tell me why this is key to your argument.
Finally, I expect clash, two sides addressing their respective sides for a lively, engaging discussion of the differences of the two positions. I accept reasonable variations, alternatives, and perspectives as long as these are supported by logic, warranted and linked to the value/criterion.
Bottom line: Speak clearly and effectively. Make your argument in the round. Give me a basic roadmap and then signpost along the way. State why - ALWAYS. Don’t insult my intelligence. Be courteous.
  