
  Judging in 2015 LD in Northeast for Ridge High School
About me: I grew up in Newton, Kansas. I'm now double majoring in Economics and Environmental Science at Columbia University in New York City. 
Experience: Four years of high school policy debate, PF Debate, LD debate, extemp, oration, etc. Attended the NSDA (NFL) tournament in three different events throughout high school: Domestic Extemp, International Extemp, and Policy Debate. Debated pretty extensively on the policy debate national circuit. Got ninth speaker in Policy Debate at the NSDA (NFL) national tournament; Won a few extemp state championships; coached teams and led debate seminars at camps; etc. 
General paradigm: Tabula Rasa. Default policymaker. 
General preferences:
Be respectful.Use all of your speech time, use all of your prep time, and put effort into cross-examination. Please share electronic evidence prior to speechs. I'll only time flashing if it becomes a problem or if it's required of me. Spreading is perfectly fine. I'm well accustomed, and you'll be able to recognize my non-verbal frustration if I cannot understand you. Remember that going as fast you can is never a substitute for persuasive arguments.How to win: 
Begin debate rebuttals with the words "the affirmative/negative has won the round because..." and then tell me exactly how my RFD (reason for decision) should be written on the ballot. Give me the big picture in your rebuttal, rather than immediately jumping into the details.Use the terms magnitude, probability, and timeframe to structure your arguments. Come prepared with intelligent, digestible strategies. Theory:
Conditionality -- it's up for debate whether or not multiple-worlds is fair or educational. In high school, I ran two or three conditional positions whenever I had a suitable judge. Time sucks are a waste of your time. You should make good arguments, not arguments that just fill time. Never run something that you wouldn't ever go for.Don't read new evidence during the final rebuttals. Rebuttals are a time to explain and analyze arguments you have already made. "Vote against the argument, not the team" is a pretty persuasive answer to abuse arguments made by affirmatives. Kritiks: 
Love 'em. I have a pretty deep familiarity with the literature that tends to be used in debates. If you don't know what you're talking about, I will know. Contextualize the kritik to the aff.I can't see myself voting for a non-topical kritikal affirmative. You have to at least try to affirm the topic or relate to the topic in a meaningful way. That being said, I used Kritik affirmatives a lot -- they're a lot more fun and educational when related to the topic. Topicality:
Reasonability vs. Competing Interps -- it's up for debate. I like either one. Affirmatives should make a reasonability argument, a we-meet argument, and a counter-interp. Leverage topicality -- cross-apply the standards to a theory flow; use it to establish links to disads; explain standards and voters in-depth. Negatives running topicality should generally make a "there's a topical version of their aff" argument to non-uniq education voters affirmatives try to leverage. Counterplans:
Love 'em. Affs should be creative with perms and take time to explain them. Familiar with all the structures. I used a lot of creative PICs and advantage counterplans in high school and I've also invented several other types. Disads and Oncase:
Plan-specific disads coupled with well-warranted solvency turns: the best strategy ever. Use impact turns strategically. Dedev is a pretty weak argument -- you can do better than that. If you decide to run Politics be creative. I don't want to hear generic evidence I know you haven't personally cut. Affirmatives should know how to strategically kick out of advantages -- competitive rounds are all about prioritization. I really don't like: 
Excessive small talk between speechs. Poor mannerisms: speaking though your partner excessively, excessive swaring, taking obnoxious seal-barking, double-breaths when spreading, throwing flashdrives, refusing to stand up to speak when fully capable. Debaters that won't adjust their delivery pace for opponents -- If the other team obviously cannot keep up with your speaking pace, then you should reasonably adjust your pace to suit their needs. People spend the entirety of the 2AC or the neg-block just reading evidence to hide the fact that they don't know how to explain their arguments and do line-by-line analysis. Debaters that just read pre-written blocks. I can tell. People who make arguments embedded in road maps. Debaters who just read and flow their opponents' arguments off of shared electronic files. You'll miss something that's said and it may distract you from preparing your speechs. Strategies whereby teams run all of their oncase in the 2NC. The 1NC should lay out all the key arguments of the round, so that the 2NC can be spent explaining some of those arguments in-depth. 
  