
  Ayyyyyyy! It's Davieson!

Background: Debated LD at Lamar Consolidated High School for 3 years. Currently debating for the University of North Texas in CX Debate. #UNT20 :)

Things to Note:
-I flow on my laptop so please signpost between authors or I will not flow coherently.
-I can't evaluate arguments I didn't flow so it's in your best interest so sign post.
-I won't default to anything unless there is a sufficient reason to and it's made into a voting issue.
-I focus on dropped arguments when making a decision so make sure you don't drop anything important

Speed: I’m fine with speed. I will say clear only 2 times, after that I stop flowing. Just signpost between authors and constructive transitions. (i.e Framework to Impacts to Alternative.)

Framework: Framework is cool and I like good framework but there are many other things I could vote on even if you’re losing it. Framework doesn’t supersede everything else in a constructive, at least to me.

Theory/Topicality: I love theory. Theory comes first because it's essentailly changed the role of the ballot in the context of the round but I can be persuaded otherwise. Violations need to be clear and your Interp must be justifiable. Topicality can be a voting issue but again, there has to be a clear violation. I do love creative topicality arguments.

Kritiks: Kritiks are fine as long as there is a clear link to the Aff. I don't find resolutional kritiks particularly compelling.

Policy Args: CP's and DA's are cool I just hope you have good evidence. I don't find generic DA's that can be recycled on every topic very compelling. Plans are cool too.

Speaker Points: Just be clear. If I’m not looking at my laptop while flowing you, you’re probably losing the round. You won’t lose speaker points if you’re aggressive during rounds. I tend to like that style of debate more, but please don’t be blatantly rude and insult your opponents during rounds. I will dock points, even if it doesn’t really matter. And I will leave a little comment on the ballot for your coach.

Misc: I really like creative arguments and good clash. I was a heavy progressive debater in high school so I kind of like to judge rounds that follow the same styles of debate, but I am fine with traditional styles as long as you clash well and give me clear reasons as to why you’re still winning. If a round is really close I will choose defaults and theory considerations over anything else if I deem it necessary to reach a justifiable decision.
  