
  Background: I competed for Flower Mound High School for 3 years. I did a lot of events, but my focus was on LD. I competed both locally and nationally. 

Speed: You can go as fast as you want as long as you're clear. SLOW DOWN FOR TAGS AND AUTHOR NAMES. If you're unclear I'll say clear, but if I say it too many times I'll start docking speaks. 

T/Theory: I know what they are and I'm fine with you reading them. If it's unnecessary or just a cop-out because you don't feel like actually debating, I'll get annoyed. I'll still vote on it if you won it, but your speaks won't be great. Read them if there's actual abuse in the round. 

Kritiks: I love them. I read a lot of K lit for fun. There's room for some really good discussion with Ks. I love good K debates but HATE bad ones, so if you're reading a K, make sure you actually know what you're talking about. Don't try to confuse your opponent to win. That being said, some K lit is super dense and can be difficult to understand, so be relatively thorough in your explanations if you think it's a difficult concept to understand. 

DAs, CPs, Plans, etc.: Go for it. Slow down when you're reading texts/tags so I can flow them. 

Speaks: I generally am pretty generous about speaks; they depend on the quality of your arguments and your strategy in round. If you're offensive I'll give you really bad speaks. If you're hyper-aggressive, I'll give you bad speaks. There's a difference between being confident and being rude. 

General Notes:
1. I won't vote off presumption; there's always some kind of risk of offense in round. You can read it, but I won't care about it. 
2. Don't be racist, sexist, etc. If you read offensive arguments, I'll drop you, give you bad speaks, and give you a lecture after the round. 
3. Extensions matter. You can't just extend the tag and the author name. You need to extend the claim, warrant, and impact for the argument to matter. 
4. UNDERSTAND YOUR ARGUMENTS. I hate when people run positions or make arguments that they don't understand. It's difficult for the judge and for the opponent, and it makes the debate awful. If you don't get it, don't run it. Some positions are dense and require more explanation than others, so be aware of that because I won't flesh out explanations/arguments on the flow for you. 
5. You can sit and debate 
6. SERIOUSLY don't be mean. Again, there's a huge difference between confidence and being mean.
  