
  Debate experience: I debate for two years and half years in High School for Benjamin Banneker Academy.
I am currently a freshman debating for Brooklyn College (CUNY) as JV.


I am open to any sort of argument that anyone makes. I've had my fair share of policy and I am slowly transitioning into K debate, so I am a bit more understanding and tolerant of Kritiks. That is not to say I don't vote on kritiks. I just feel there needs to be a better explanation of the kritik and what it does, the same goes for policy. You know what? Everything needs good explanation. Period.I like to vote on the flow. I don't like intervening as a judge (unless told otherwise). Every argument needs to be explained at least one, so if you're going to just extend a bunch of arguments make sure they're explained! ( Have you picked up on the pattern?)If you're paperless or some form of paperless then I do not count flashing as prep. However, if the time it takes to flash becomes too extensive then I will run prep. I also give 10 minutes of free time to fix any proven technical issue you maybe experiencing in the debate round.I always prefer that debaters treat each other with respect. There is only a certain level of snarky that I will allow in the debate round before I start deducting speaker points. You don't have to be nice but you certainly don't have to be rude. Cursing is fine, keep to a minimum and if you're going to get up and say offensive things please have a reason. Don't just say offensive things because it's debate.Speed is not an issue but if you go too fast or unclear then I will let you know. I would prefer that you read at a consistent pace as oppose to really loud speed reading, but don't let my preference deter you from doing what you do best.I really like Impact Calculus. I think it's really important part of the debate. I look to it as a first and last resort in all situations. If Impact calculus isn't really well done then I just need a really clear reason as to why you win the debate round and we can go from there.Theory: Theory is really an important issue in the debate especially when you can prove actual in round abuse. If someone runs 6+ off-case then maybe condo is good theory to run. I will vote on theory under certain conditions. 1. There is actual in-round abuse, potential abuse needs more work but I don't buy it (half the time). 2. It's dropped 3. It's debate properly and there are actual reasons to believe the other team is lacking in this debate. Often times I will default to not voting for theory if a member makes just enough arguments to drop it...simply: if it becomes a wash. (My favorite theory arguments: floating pics bad, pref con good and bad, utopian good and bad).Topicality: I love a good T debate. I feel that the best part of a T debate is when the negative spins the story really well and they prove that AFF is being abusive not just by how the C/I is bad and abusive but how the AFF causes actual in-round abuse!DisAd: I like a good DisAd debate. Seriously, there nothing more that I would like to hear than the aff messing up the status qou. Things are usually fair game. For DisAds, I like a lot of warrant analysis so I can understand how the affirmative cause the status qou to change. I don't count reading a 10000 impact cards as impact calc.CounterPlans- These are the worse things in the world. I will vote for them, but the first piece of offense I look forward is the perm. Please perm a CP...make up dribble (make it make sense). I like permutation text, I feel it's a good way to resolve a lot of abuse in the debate round and help teams win the flow better. I don't like voting on net benefit-less CPs (But I will if I must).Case: This is tricky. If the Affirmative is losing on solvency, I will often feel obligated to give them the the chance of 1% (if that argument is made; this by no means that this is the norm. It is simply under certain circumstances).Kritiks: Explain the Kritik to me well. Explain the Kritik to me so well that you think if you don't explain well, that I am going to drop you and vote AFF on presumption. I am learning how to run Kritiks. They're fun. I like CAP the most. No stupid abusive stuff...seriously. Be realistic.Framework: Framework debates are good. I prefer state enacting frameworks. Whatever other framework you present is fine also.

 
 
 

  