
  What I judge/Experience:

I judge JV and Novice LD, and I competed Novice Year. I flow, I judge what I flow.

Style:

You can do whatever you want, just let me see the case at the end of the round. 

Weighing and Voting Issues:

Weighing is something incredibly important to me. Weighing gives me how you look at things during a round. If you weigh, you will get higher speaker points. If you don't weigh it could hurt because you and I perceive things differently, I may think one thing isn't valuable and isn't worthy enough to weigh, while you may think it's the most important thing in the round. This is the same thing for voting issues, tell me what you want me to vote on. If not, I once again may vote on things you don't like or approve of. It's all about perception, also treat me like the laziest person in the world. Tell me how to guide my thinking, and then if you do that it will be so helpful and beneficial to you. (This part applies to JV only) Also, put voting issues in your last speech, if you fail to do this, then I will dock speaks.

Speed

I am okay if you spread, but you must spread clearly. If you mumble and fail to enunciate, I will not write it down. I judge what I flow, so your points will not be accounted for. However, if you're speaking too fast, I will say "CLEAR" or "SLOW DOWN." Note, I flow on my computer (iPad for now) and I am trying to type fast. 
Cross-X:

I do not like when you ask for clarifying questions in cross-x, you can ask those questions during prep or get their case during prep. In cross-x get information that's beneficial to you, and use that information in the round. This will make me like you so much more, and will raise your speaks. Please be polite in cross-x, if you're rude and act like a jerk, I will dock speaks. 
Evidence:

It's my favorite thing when someone uses evidence during rebuttals and initials speeches. They use evidence to attack their opponent's case, and that makes me swoon. I love evidence, the more evidence the merrier because it brings proof. Don't just use tag lines, use other stuff and then you will do well. 

ANOTHER IMPORTANT THING: Please clearly say the card name, like take a breathe, say card name, and then continue speaking fast. 

Entertain Me:

If you entertain me, either by using a really good card or whatever you will do well in speaker points. Also, please make good and exciting arguments backed up with evidence, I will not believe a word you say unless you have evidence. Make it like you were to watch Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton debate, don't debate like them, but make it entertaining. I don't want to be bored and fall asleep while I flow, so if you make it entertaining then that won't happen. 


Scoring:

JV ONLY: If I give you a 25 or a 26, you are not ready to go into elim rounds, you messed up some fundamentals and need to work on the things I give you. If I give you a 27, then you're ready to break to doubles. You're average and should fix the things that are making you a 27. If you're a 28, you should break and you did really well. If I give yo you a 29, you're amazing and almost godlike. I barely give 30s, and when I do it's because you're a god. You did everything so flawlessly and you should make it to the finals, if not win. 
DONT BE A JERK!

If you say something racist, homophobic or sexist, I will drop you with a 25 or lower, in the middle of the round. This applies to at ANY point in the round, from the first word to the last word. DO NOT SAY SOMETHING RACIST, SEXIST, OR HOMOPHOBIC!


Sweet Little Note:

JV ONLY: Hi, I just wanted to say good luck. You guys are going to great, relax. Also, give me a pen and flow paper. Nothing will happen (it may push you from a 27 to a 28 if I am indecisive on the score,) but it shows that you're prepared. 


SIDE NOTE:

I wrote this whole thing twice because the first time, it got lost in Internet space. I care.


Anyways, good luck you will do great!

See yah in the round!

Katie DeBois
  