
  Speed: "Whatever you think you can do, I can handle". That being said, there is some element of communication that gets lost with speed, especially if your opponent can't handle the same pace. If you go too fast and I cannot flow then you DROP those contentions and evidence, plain and simple. So if you going fast detracts from the quality of clash, then that's your fault, not your opponent's. Also, if you're spreading for the sake of speed, and I can't understand the words that are coming out of your mouth, then there's nothing I can flow. You'll know you're being unclear if my pen hits the desk, I take up knitting, and I give you the death stare.Jargon: I'm not a fan of it, as it detracts from the ability for people not well versed in the activity to follow it, but I've gotten used to it.Argumentation: LD is a theoretical debate, and if you expect to pick up my ballot, you'll keep it that way. For example, you can talk about H1N1, but if you don't impact it back to why it justifies compulsory immunizations, you just wasted my time. Also, you're not solving for anything (that's policy). Because it's a theoretical debate, you can't even assume that the problems you want to solve for exist in the first place.Kritiks: Cute? Yep. Amusing? You bet. Refreshing? Like a Sprite on a hot, summer day. But there's no place for it in LD debate. My pennies and $5 bills weep when you try and skirt the resolution. The debate is supposed to be a battle of competing values on a nationwide topic. When your value is something based around the expanding the education of debate, then you're avoiding the fundamentals of the event. You want to expand your education? Try doing the event you signed up for.Speaker Points will reflect how well you debated and how well you conducted yourself during speeches and throughout the entirety of our interaction as well.I'll get mad if i have to call clear more than once. Make sure you are somewhat comprehensible when reading cards. I don't need to hear every single word in a piece of evidence but i need to know that you are actually saying something coherent
  