
  I. Intro
My name is Ryan DeLaney, I am a debater and Anthropology major from Clarion University. In general I default to to a policy maker paradigm, but I can easily be convinced otherwise and will accept most arguments if backed with good evidence and logic. If not reading a plan is your style then go ahead, but on the same note I'll be willing to vote on framework. I'd suggest running arguments that you know and are able to draw a clear picture from links to impacts as opposed to a topicality violation or kritik that you aren't well versed in but sounds impressive. 

II. Argument Specifics
Kritiks/Performances: I have a good literature base and general understanding of a lot of gender/ethnic/philosophical issues, but make sure your advocacy is clear and that there is a clear link and impact that pertains to the debate on hand. 

Disads/Advantages: This is probably the area I am most acquainted to. Make sure your links make sense in context to the round and that you can paint a clear picture of how to get from the Aff to the advantages/harms and you should be good.

Impact Calc: Extremely important when dealing with impacts of different types. Could we survive a nuclear war but not the extinction of certain species of coral? Is deconstructing capitalism more important that preventing a war in the short term? It's up to you to convince me so or otherwise. 

Topicality/Theory/Framework: I'm fine with voting on any of the above if you can prove some sort of in round abuse, personally I love debates of these variety, but yet again, only if they are thoroughly explained in a logical manner. If you can prove to me that the other team has stepped over the line with an argument and you believe I should mark it a zero I have no qualms deciding a debate on these grounds. 

III. Speaker Points
30= Perfect, keep doing your thing.
29.5-28.5= Pretty good, expect to break or get a speaker award if you perform consistently at this level
28-27= Average
Below 27= You know what you did, but I will probably tell you after round. 

IV. After Round
Feel free to ask me questions about what I voted on or how you could have ran an argument better. However arguing with me over the verdict will be ineffective at best.
  