
  *If you are in a hurry I suggest you read through at bare minimum the underlined portions of my paradigm*

I debated LD for four years at the Law Magnet (TX). During my time at the law magnet I was coached by Kristopher Wright. Therefore, a good part of my perspective on debate coincides with his. I have been out of the actvity for a few years. Last time I debated was in 2013. I do not believe this affects my ability to understand arguments but it does mean I'm not up to date on all the debate jargon & top speed is probably not a good idea. 

Notes:
*Default: By default I mean that absent of either debater making arguments on how I should evaluate that issue I will evaluate things X way.

Ways I evaluate certain things in round:

Theory:
As it stands now I do not dislike theory. I view theory as an opportunity for debaters to advance their vision of debate by arguing for what debates should look like. However, I do realize that theory is not used in this manner every time. On theory I default to a competing interpretations paradigm. Meaning, when listening to theory I will not actively aim to gauge things like whether theory was actually necessary or whether the amount of in-round abuse was sufficient to merit theory (Unless of course arguments are made as to why I should do those things).

Speed:
A notch or two below top speed would be appreciated and recommended because I will not vote an argument in which I feel I did not sufficiently capture the internals of. I realize even with this explanation there still exist ambiguity so I say clear and/or slower as needed.

General:
I like when a debater establishes a clear burden structure. When a debater establishes a clear framework, a decision calculus, in which I am to evaluate offense and decide the winner. I do not default to a truth-testing or comparative worlds paradigm. If there isn’t an explicit paradigmatic debate, I will adjudicate within whichever paradigm the debaters appear to be using.

Stylistic Preferences:
1. I prefer debate cases that have a clear organizational structure.2. I like when debaters flesh out the implications of their arguments and also do things such as take the time to paint me a ballot story/breaking down the round for me. Actions such as those are rewarded with speaks.CX
I am okay with asking questions during prep time as long as both debaters agree on it.

Lastly, feel free to ask me any questions before the round, if there was any confusion or something was not included in paradigm

Miscellaneous
1. New trends seem to pop up in debate every year. Ultimately an argument is just an argument however I would be careful with the use of debate jargon if you're running an experimental position or something like that. Being removed from the activity a while means I'd first have to decode the jargon and then start comprehending your arguments.
  