
  Intro: I am a policy judge first, so given no other alternative I will weigh the advantages and disadvantages of enacting the affirmative plan against the status quo first. That being said, issues such as Topicality and other framework/voters are welcome in the round, and I can be persuaded to accept them.

Topicality: I approve across the board on T. I enjoy a solid technical Topicality debate and see it as a valuable test of the Aff’s plan and debating abilities.

Speed: Just don’t. Too many times debaters attempt to use speed but in the process sacrifice clarity in the process. Remember that debate is partially an activity based around persuasion, and part of that is being able to communicate effectively. You can always look up to see whether I believe you’re going too fast. When in doubt, look to me.

K: Must provide an alternative. ‘Reject the Aff’ is an acceptable alternative, however a weak one, and may not necessarily outweigh the Aff plan in the end. Make sure to weigh the K and prove that it should be judged before the other issues on the round.


CP: Must be non-topical and mutually exclusive. If the plan is not mutually exclusive the Affs are perfectly within their right to argue a permutation and move on. PIC’s are allowed but Neg’s must prove that it somehow includes the plan while being mutually exclusive (which at a glance seems impossible, but if you can make the argument or the Aff’s fail to permute, then I will award it to the Neg)

Open CX: Yes.

Split the Neg Block: Split away.

New in the 2NC: No.I have found the debate is better with more clash when I limit new arguments in the 2NC

On Prep Time: 8 minutes of prep for Varsity 4 / Switch unless the tournament specifies otherwise. Novice Policy I will allow 5 minutes of prep. I will time your prep, but wont take requests. If you’re going to take prep, just take it, don’t ask me for 45 seconds of prep
.
Overall: Above all else, the thing I value most is the argument. A well-crafted, persuasive, and coherent argument can supersede almost anything else in the round to me. Make sure to weigh the round and tell me why you win. Make sure you tell me!
  