
  November 2017


Nutshell: I debated circuit parli for 4 years in high school, with brief forays of LD. Open to hearing any argument as long as it’s impacted clearly and you tell me how to evaluate it. I mostly went for case debate and theory, but I’ve read the K and I’m very open to hearing it as a judge.


LD-SPECIFIC: Everything below applies, especially RE topicality, the K, etc.


Speed — I should be able to handle most things, but a really fast LD spread might outpace my flowing — if it does, I won’t hesitate to call clear.


Framework — Coming from parli, I’m most familiar with util-based frameworks but I have passing familiarity with most things and I’m happy to evaluate meta-ethical debates. That said, all frameworks (but especially non-consequentalist ones) need to clearly explain how I should evaluate the debate. 


Theory — If the interp doesn’t have labeled, distinct standards when initially read, I give the other side a lot of latitude to make later responses. That said, if the standards are labeled and not terribly developed, a drop is still a drop.


Policy-style debating — I’ll probably have a hard time penalizing someone for running a plan, but I’m certainly happy to evaluate the argument. 





GENERAL:


SPEED:


Shouldn’t be an issue in parli — I can flow as fast as anyone is going to be talking. If this is policy, go maybe 80% and you should be OK — I’ll call slow or clear as necessary.


I’ll never stop trying to flow, but if I have to call clear too many times it probably means I’m not getting very much.


DISADS / CASE:


Yes please. Highly specific and warranted arguments will get you high speaks. Generics make me less happy, but I like to see them debated well and I’m happy to vote on them. Either way, a clean collapse and clear strategy are your friend.


I really, really prefer you do weighing, but if you give me none I’ll default to magnitude when there’s no other way to resolve the round.


TOPICALITY / THEORY:


When well-executed, topicality especially is a personal favorite argument for me. If you’re going for T, collapse to it in the block and don’t go for anything else. Impact out your standards. Internal link turn the other side’s standards. Be as clear as you can about interps — to the extent that I can, I’m evaluating what you said and not what you meant, so say what you mean.


Default to competing interpretations — I’m happy to vote on reasonability, but you definitely need a bright line and should tell me how your version of reasonability functions.


COUNTERPLANS:


Run them. I especially enjoy thoughtful uniqueness and advantage CPs, but I’m down to hear anything. Make sure to clearly articulate your competition and net benefits, and keep your text stable.


I tend to think one conditional advocacy is reasonable, but I’m highly open to hearing theory otherwise, or for you to read five and justify it.


Specific counterplans: delay, conditions, etc. are probably cheating, and consult might be. Open to hearing arguments on PICs, alternative actor etc. These are all defaults so feel free to do whatever you can justify.


THE K:


Happy to hear it, although it wasn’t my personal focus. By default, I’ll tend to think about the K debate as a comparison of methods against that of the aff. If you want me to do something else, I will — just make sure to justify it.


Don’t try to confuse your opponents out of the round. That’s bad debating. Especially if your K is confusing, take a bunch of questions and explain what the other side asks you to.


Make sure your alternative solvency gets well explained, and that it resolves your links. This is probably how you’ll lose if I vote aff. 


If your framework arguments deny the aff access to the debate I won’t be happy, but I will evaluate them. On the aff, please answer those arguments and leverage your offense within both frameworks.


I’m at least passingly familiar with most common debate stuff — cap, fem, race, anthro, most kinds of postmodernism, Nietzsche, etc, and I’ve got some background with the literature on Baudrillard and Orientalism. In other words I’ve probably at least heard of your author, but that shouldn’t lower your threshold on explaining arguments.


K AFFS:


If they’re your thing, go ahead. I tend to feel like the aff should affirm the topic at least in some form, which means I’m probably more open to framework than some. But debate it out.


I don’t feel comfortable voting on disclosure theory unless you can show me proof there wasn’t any after the round — as in, a text message refusing to disclose.


GENERAL:


Nothing personal, but let’s not shake hands. 


Don’t be offensive or horrible — impact turning racism, insulting your opponents, etc.


You should really give the other side a text when they ask, and take at least one question per speech. But it’s not a reason you’ll lose unless someone reads (and wins) theory.


For parli: I’ll protect against blatantly new arguments in the rebuttal, but if it’s borderline I’ll let it through absent a challenge from the other side. I'll hold my pen up to indicate if I'm protecting against a new argument. If you’re not sure, call the point of order — I won’t hate you for it.
  