
  *UPDATE FOR CHURCHILL 2017: I have not judged a round since Churchill last year and haven't flowed speed since like April, so it would be advantageous for you to at least start slower than your fastest speed and to impact your arguments to the best of your ability. I am not 100% familiar with the currents trends in LD, so just make sure you explain the implication of all your arguments. Feel free to ask me any clarification on this :) 

I debated for four years for Brandeis High School in San Antonio, TX and went to the TOC my senior year (2014).

SHORT VERSION:
I think debate is your game, not mine, so I try my best to keep my views out of the round. I debated pretty much everything as a debater and I will vote on pretty much anything that is warranted, excluding blatantly offensive arguments. Below is just a list of my preferences and the way I saw debate as a debater. These are not hard and fast rules and they will likely change as the year goes on.

SPECIFICS:
Theory/T: I read a lot of it as a debater. I think it can be a fun and strategic way to debate. I default competing interps, drop the debater, and no RVI if no arguments for this are made by either side, but I expect you to be making these arguments. I see competing interps as not requiring in round abuse. I generally believe fairness and education are voters, but I will evaluate fairness/education not being voters just like any other argument. Absent an argument saying that the additional plank is unjustified under an offensive counter-interp, i don't see an offensive counterinterp requiring an RVI.

Kritiks/dense phil: They are fine. I read a few Ks in high school, but I'm not super familiar with most K literature so it would be advantageous for you to SLOW down on tags at least. I used to not be the biggest K fan, but as I've seen the circuit progress in that direction I'm cool with judging them.

Policy Args: Fine by me! I read a lot of policy args in high school...just make sure you do good weighing.

Tricks: I loved these as a debater, but I was always very up front about them...so, I will be very annoyed and probably lower your speaks if you’re sketchy about your tricks. You can read as many as you want, but just be honest about them and I will probably think you are cool and strategic and thus reward you with good speaks.

Micropol: I guess I will vote on it, but hesitantly. I am more than likely very receptive to arguments against these positions.

If I missed something just ask, but I'm honestly cool with pretty much whatever.

Feel free to ask me any questions before the round or shoot me an email at courtneydevore@gmail.com!
  