
  external image 220px-Chattahoochee_Cougars_Logo.jpg

Hooch 2015
Georgia Tech 2019
Currently Not Debating, 4 years of Policy in High School
Senior Year was in 3 bid rounds and got a bid to the TOC so I like to think I've learned something in debate
Also won the Milton Tournament- coolest trophy ever (sucks to suck Evan Katz)
Ive been both a 2a and a 2n (Being the 2n is fun going for Saudi Prolif but the 2a life is where its at)
My Partner Santosh Nimkar is the best person you will ever meet (good jokes about him earn a +.2)

As I am no longer debating- alot of things have changed in the way I view debate, how I feel about certain args etc. - I'll try my best to reflect those changes below


Topic Experience- I have not judged any rounds on the Surveillance Topic so please be careful about using acronyms with me. I am also not that familiar with how topicality is this year either. This does not mean I am not open to complex debates but lets try and keep things simple. If I am judging you this weekend at the Cougar Classic things that would fly well with me 

- Impact Turns 
-The Security K 
- Generic Topic DA's 

Be careful with complex K's, intricate T-violations, specific counterplans etc. If you cannot explain things well enough in your speech I will be forced to read evidence and that could go either way. I will however do my best to evaluate the debate.




TOP LEVEL

Please read a plan- if you don't then I'm probably not the best judge for you

Short Version--> Whoever does the better debating wins. Impact your stuff well and tell me why it matters and I will vote for you

- Prep Time - I will not take prep for flashing but if you are being highly excessive without a legitimate excuse will push me to start the timer again and not let you know till you're actually done- same goes for email chains - I always want to be on them

Arguments need a claim and a warrant--> Dont just tagline extend stuff and expect me to buy your story... I absolutely HATE IT and I cannot say this enough HATE IT when there is no warrant explained 

Evidence--> I like evidence and will read the evidence I deem is necessary, I like to see when evidence is refuted and discussed in cross-ex - I dont want to vote based on how good evidence is but it certainly sways my decision in close debates - please be sure your ev at least attempts to make the argument it claims it does because if it doesn't I will lol 


Flowing--> please do it, you cannot earn higher than a 27 in front of me if you do not flow (Shunta Jordan)- this goes for the final rebuttals as well if I see the negative team not flowing the 2AR 

Speed/clarity - debate is a communicative activity. If I don't comprehend an argument then I'm not going to flow it. I'm not sure who the source of this quote is, but it's great advice: "Speed is the number of arguments you make that the judge thinks the other team has to answer". I understand you want to get through as many cards as possible but slowing down for ten seconds and making eye contact grand standing a super awesome line in a card earns you super ethos points with me 

Ethical Violations- (clipping cards, cross reading) will result in an immediate loss and a 0 given to the violator, if sufficient evidence exists. if you dont have enough evidence, dont stake the debate on it, but I will still take it into account regarding speaks and how I evaluate the debate
 
 Speaks
 28 is average, 29 is awesome, 30's are impossible, i try not to give you something super low unless you really messed up 

Specifics

DAs.
 Super Techy Disad Debates are probably my favorite to judge.

I love disads ( this does not include politics see below) Case specific da's are cool. Alot of people underestimate the utility of putting 1-2 disads on case (yes it gets supper messy but it usually always works in the negative's favor). I do believe that the risk of a DA can be reduced to 0 if there is sufficient defense. My favorite DA in all of debate is the Saudi Prolif DA (even though it is pretty much dead now- went for it 15 times my senior year). Don't read contradictory disads. 

Politics
 This DA is dumb but I will listen to it. It honestly doesn't make a whole lot of sense but there are times where I do think politics DA's are good but this relies on the evidence being good- a link card that says the plan may generate "controversy" does not persuade me- look at Nasir Nanjee's philosophy- thats pretty much how i feel about it even if I am from Hooch

T
 I like T alot - but that depends on whether if it is a legitimate violation that gets flushed out in the negative block not just a crappy 1 minute extention. I default to competing interpretations but can be persuaded otherwise. If you really want to learn about T talk to Aakash Pattabi (<3 bae for life). Please dont spread T shells as fast as you can and if it is being extended in the negative block a clear case list for both sides will get you far.

CPs
These can be awesome but things like process CP's and condition/consult are stupid, I lean aff on most theory questions PICS are meh - but it depends. I am down for multiplank Cp's and read them often. 2A's should respond by reading addons the CP doesnt solve and should answer the CP plank by plank- multiplank condo is a VI doesnt really persuade me unless the negative team EXPLICITLY says they can kick individual planks, I feel 2NC counterplans are abusive - and in that instance aff teams should probably extend condo but if you dont you may be asking for trouble 

Ks
 Generic stuff is good- I like Security the best. Crazy shit is frowned upon- chances are if I dont get what you are saying Im gonna vote aff even if you sound good


Impact Turns
Idk I kinda had a thing for them my senior year even though my coach didn't. Dedev is fun. Do what you have to do to win. Im more willing to listen to stupid impact turn then I am to some dumb kritik. 


 
 Theory 
 
I think most theory args are a reason to reject the argument with the exception of Conditionality

Condo- 1 is alright, 2 is bad(maybe), 3 is gg

Any other specefic theory questions--> ask me

Topicality > Theory

Last Notes --> have fun and extra points if you make good, relevant jokes, Also I have a terrible poker face so im with you on something il let you know, but if you're spitting nonsense il also let you know, Also please dont act like you know me unless you actually know me, Im not your friend its just weird when you try and talk to me during a speech

Dont curse excessively please its not fun to hear- you can ridicule arguments without having to use certain language

Debate is an amazing activity- one that I thoroughly enjoyed in High School. It allowed me to meet so many amazing people and friends and please respect it for what it is.
  