
  I'm Jazeth. I debated for Homewood Flossmoor High School all 4 years on the policy team.
she/her pronouns
my email is jazeth.debate@gmail.com so email me if you've got questions or want a copy of my flows.

 *please note that if you have any needs that require accommodation, please feel free to talk to me before the round. i'll do my best to make sure you feel safe/comfortable as long as the debate remains fair for the other team as well*

make some puns, i'll love it. whoever makes the first Harry Potter joke in their speech will get .5 extra speaker points

General/TL;DR
you do you and run whatever you feel most comfortable running.
if you're going to go for D&G i'm probably not the judge you want in the back of the room.
2015 survelliance topic: i've done some research on it, as of September, I haven't judged any debates on this topic so chill out with some acronyms. 
I flow fairly well, so if you said it, i probably have it down
I don't like calling for cards at the end of the debate because i feel like y'all should explain that evidence for me, but with that being said, I'll call for cards that i think are an important part of the debate.
i don't think "you guys" is gender neutral, and i'll probably get annoyed if you say it a lot
i make a lot of weird faces, either because you said something that reminds me of something else or because i just had a realization. although, if i look confused by something you're saying, it probably means i'm confused
i'll yell clear twice and after that if i can't catch it i won't flow it

for the nitty gritty stuff

Topicality
I'm down with it. if the aff is just obviously non topical, point it out and go for it. I don't think people really extend T very well in novice debate, so you should extend your interp, standards and it'd be a cool idea to answer their stuff too. I default to reasonability unless told/explained why i should not
ASPEC and OSPEC are not arguments. the ASPEC/OSPEC double bind does not exist and is not as damning as you think, trust me

Kritiks
I've grown fond of them. I like these types of debates when y'all know what you're talking about. You should be going for root cause debates because these claims are normally true. Framework on the K is not a reason to reject the team, but rather a reason why i should view your arguments to a higher standard.
>please don't go for patriarchy good, racism good, poverty good or anything like that. You'll get the lowest speaks i'm allowed to give.

Disads
I like a good disad debate. When it's done well in the block it can be really devastating to the aff. I think that the link controls the UQ but can be convinced otherwise

Counterplans
i think that the counterplan should solve all or part of case and have a clear net benefit. I won't kick the CP for you in your 2NR, so if you go for CP/DA in your 2NR and the perm solves, i'm sorry. if you want me to kick it for you, tell me why i should.
most to least favorite
-one that is specific to the aff
-private sector
-PIC
-advantage
-actor
-international
-states/lopez
-delay/literally anything else

Theory
I'm a 2A at heart, but this year i've become a 2N and recognize that some theory is just absurd. Two condo worlds are okay, three is pushing it, but anything more is just not cool and i'll be really sympathetic to the aff if they read condo. I'll evaluate all theory as long as it's impacted
if you want me to catch all your theory standards, slow down and realize that it'll take me a bit longer to write everything down

Framework
Framework and topicality are two different things. I'll vote on framework, but i'll be kinda upset.

K Affs
i'm down with this. you can say fuck the resolution if you want to, i really don't care. I really like K affs, honestly. I don't think you get a perm if it's a debate about method though. This is my favorite kind of debate to watch normally, because it's normally the most engaging. I think that there should be a stable advocacy, what that advocacy is is debatable (pun intended).

other important stuff you should know
 prep ends when you tell me it does - if i see that flashing is getting excessive then i'll start prep again, but other than that you do whatever.if you want extra speaker points, show me your flows at the end of the round. if they look close to mine, you'll get it.if you think you're winning the round substantially, you can call a TKO and end your speech early. if you're right, you'll get a 30. if you're wrong, then that's embarrassing.please don't post round me, i'll get annoyed and go on tumblr until i think you're done talking.with that being said, feel free to ask me questions about my decision, i'll be more than happy to explain why i voted the way i didthe ballot goes to whoever does the better job debating, unless told otherwise.my paradigm isn't set in stone, so feel free to run whatever - regardless of my stance on it.for the neg - if you don't end up going for a condo world in the 2nr but don't kick it and the aff extends the perm, then sucks for you. you have to kick out of things unless you tell me why i should kick things for you.please don't make me be mean. i'm a really nice person and hate being mean, but i will if i have to. just make the round fun, otherwise we'll all be upset at the end of the round and who wants that???my stance on ethical violations are the same as Kim Pressling's (numbers 3 and 4 in particular).
  