
  I consider myself a policy maker by default, although the framework is up for debate in the round. All arguments are good to run, however you should know that I HATE discourse impacts of all stripes with a burning passion. I have voted for them before and will probably vote for them again but dear god how I hate them. In my view, debate is a logic game revolving around policies as a framework. It's a very fun game and I believe very strongly in its value, but it's only fun if you play, and it has no greater significance. Here's a TRUE FACT: you are not going to change anyone's actual mind or make one iota of difference in the world because of your discourse. Play the game. I don't mind kritiks, IF the impacts take place in the hypothetical post-plan world, NOT outside the fourth wall of the round. Basically, if your argument can in any way be boiled down to "my speech right now is CHANGING HEARTS AND MINDS and by signing your ballot over to me you are SMASHING CAPITALISM OR WHATEVER with the TRANSFORMATIVE WORLD-SHAKING POWER of voting for one high-school debate team over another," I hate you and do not want to vote for you. Now, I do abide by the rules of the game, so if your opponents utterly mishandle it, I won't intervene to strike down discourse arguments, but understand that all discourse arguments start two strikes down with me because DISCOURSE IS DUMB.

Speed is good and encouraged but please be clear and please slow down on tags and analyticals. If I call "clear" twice in one speech and you fail to clear it up, I will stop flowing and feel not the least bit bad about that. Please try not to extend or refer to cards solely by cite, fun fact, every judge hates that. Instead of "Please extend the McGruber '97 card" say "extend the fourth card from the 1NC shell" or even "extend our card that says yada yada yada". Protip: no one really flows cites.

I do enjoy SHORT pre-speech roadmaps, but BEWARE. If you are one of those jackasses who is all "stop prep time" and then stands there for a bunch of time talking to your partner, passing flash drives, blah blah blah, I WILL just go ahead and start your speech time. There should be a maximum of maybe 4 seconds between end of prep time and beginning of speech time. Don't waste my time.
  