
  Judging Paradigm

Background:
Parliamentary Debate in Evergreen Valley High School
Current Pre-Med Student at UC Merced

Down-Low for those reading this right before a round:
1. I prefer policy making debate but get the gist of LD
2. I have no background in LD so explain everything thoroughly and tell me why it’s important
3. I am highly critical of arguments in general; if you’re going to run Theory or K's DO IT WELL

Speed:
1. I am not used to true high speed spreading while flowing but I’m game. You can go as fast as you wish but I will yell clear or slow down if I can’t keep up. Please allow for pen time and make sure your taglines are clear
2. If I yell clear or ask you to slow down and you don’t appear to comply, I will mark you down. If I don’t hear it or understand it, I won’t flow it.

Speaking:
1. Please speak clearly, if you can’t spread clearly then don’t spread at all. In fact, that’ll make both of our lives easy, mkay?
2. My speaker points range from 25-30 with 25 being either remarkably poor or you probably got marked down for anything mentioned above and below, 27 being average and 30 being you speaketh with the voice of the angels. People who aim for 30 speaker points should have excellent presentation both in argument and speaking style and are confident, witty, and next to flawless.

Standards:
1. I’m game for philosophy but like I said, no background in LD, so please explain it thoroughly and by thoroughly, I mean in-depth and well. I’m not a parent judge, don’t patronize me.
2. I’m a policy making debater so plan/CP style debating is more likely to win me over
3. Standards I favor most: net benefits and utilitarianism

Kritiks:
1. Only run them if you’re confident and know what they are and competent enough to explain them to me
2. I love fem-Ks, I will vote up on fem-Ks but if you butcher the fem-K I will vote down so hard and take off major speaker points. Run one properly and victory is practically guaranteed

Things I look for when deciding who won a round/or who to reward:
1. Creative/solid arguments: bonus points for arguments related to biomedical science because science
2. Creative strategy: use your opp’s mistakes against them, run Ks correctly, interpreting things creatively, etc…
3. I will reward speaker points if you include witty (but good, don’t butcher them) allusions to Harry Potter, A Very Potter Musical, Unicorns, Cats, Narnia
4. Being aggressive impresses me: aggressive NOT MEAN
5. Make a brilliant pun and I will reward you
6. I WILL take points off for: being rude before, in, and after round, hostile cross examinations (I will call you out if I think you’re being too hostile and abrasive), sexist/racist/homophobic language and/or behavior before/in/after rounds 
  