
  Updated January 9, 2016:

Debated for 4 years at Shawnee Mission East High School.
Two-time Kansas State Champion (junior and senior years).
Had 2 TOC bids senior year.
Speaker Position: 2A/1N (but also dabbled as a 2N).

Rounds Judged on Current Topic: 7

I would like to be part of the email chain: thenextpken@gmail.com

Big Picture:
I will do my best to fairly judge the debate and ask that you be respectful to me and your opponents.
The affirmative must disclose the plan text and advantages if they have been read before by a member of their debate team.
The negative must disclose past 2NR decisions and 1NC offense.
Don’t clip. You will lose the debate.
Tech outweighs truth, except for morally objectionable claims like racism good, etc.
I do not currently debate or coach, so I am unfamiliar with this year’s resolution. If you have a complicated mechanism or abbreviation, be sure to slow down and explain what you’re talking about.
If you give me flow paper, I will flow on that; else, I will flow on my computer.
Have fun! Making bold decisions and funny jokes (even bad ones) will improve your speaker points.

Speed:
Speed is fine, provided that you are clear. If you are unclear, I will not flow because I won’t know what you’re saying.

Framework:
The affirmative should defend a topical plan.

Topicality:
I enjoy topicality debates. I will default to competing interpretations if no other framing is given, but will vote on reasonability if it is explained well.

Kritiks:
Kritiks are my least favorite argument. I am not very familiar with kritikal literature, so if you are going for a kritik, make sure to thoroughly explain exactly what you are talking about.

Disadvantages:
I like disadvantages. Impact calculus and turns case arguments are important. If argued correctly, I will vote on zero percent risk of a disadvantage (and also zero percent risk of case).

Counterplans:
I like counterplans, provided that they are theoretically legitimate.

Impact Turns:
Impact turn debates are fun, provided that the impact turns are not completely ridiculous.

Theory:
I think the negative should get up to two conditional advocacies (but feel free to tell me otherwise).
Most other theory arguments are reasons to reject the argument, not the team.
  