
  First, I want to start off by saying that I will honestly for any warranted argument. If the Affirmative wants to tell me that I should not vote for the Negative, because they have a red head on their team, followed by warrants, I will vote Affirmative if not negated. Obviously, this is an extreme example; hopefully, this never comes into reality. If I'm forced to vote for an argument that is illegitimate, like the example I just gave, then I'll dock speaker points. 

Secondly, I don't prefer speed. I'd rather a fast conversational speed. It's easier for me to process the information debaters are giving as well as flow. If you want to speak like you're driving on the Autobahn by all means do so. I won't dock points or vote against you. You will just make it harder for me to process information and flow. It's you're decision, though.

Now, while I will vote for anything, I do have my preferences. 

Procedurals/Theory - I love procedurals more than any argument in the round. If the negative wants to run eight minutes worth of procedurals in the 1NC, there will be no sad face for me! I would prefer to see at least one procedural in the 2NR/2AR. I have a high respect for topicality, so if you run it, and I hope you will, please keep this flow especially organized. Topicality is the easiest way to my ballot.

CPs - I have NO desire to hear a CP unless the CP is very specific. I will vote on them, obviously, but I just don't like them.

Kritiks - I like Kritiks, because they make me think; however, I don't normally feel compelled to vote on them, because the Affirmative usually does a good enough job logically combatting them. The lack of uniqueness makes large scale impacts improbable (at least on a normal timescale, for the most part); thus, the Kritik is going to have to have a good story to negate the Affirmative offense.

Disads - Run them, or else!

Case - Other than the procedural dump that I want to see, on-case arguments are a must. Please, tell me EXACTLY where on the flow to put the argument. I don't like it when my case flow gets muddled.

If you have any specific questions, ask me.
  