
  Hey! I debated for Brooklyn Technical High School for three years and I’m currently a freshmen in college. I ran Performance/K arguments, but I’m open to all. However, if you’re a team that likes to run stock issues and politics DA’s, I’m probably not the best judge for that. This debate season (2014-2015) will be my first time judging HS. 

A few important things to me:
Run what you know! If changing your strat for your judge means reading files you don’t have a solid understanding of, don’t do it!!Write my ballot for me in the 2nr/2ar. It’d be super if your 2nr/2ar can start with something like “X reasons why you should vote for us,” and then you go into everything else. I know from experience that the flow can get messy in-round, but make sure to clean it up by the rebuttals. I don’t take prep for flashing, woo! Just don’t try to be sneaky and prep when you should be flashing.Be nice to each other! Debate is (should be) fun, haha.
I’ll keep this short:

Case
If you’re neg, always always always have offense on case. Engage with the affirmative’s plan in addition to running Ks/CPs/etc. As for the Aff, use your aff wisely. Don’t just read new cards in every speech to answer there’s, use your aff!

Theory/T
Ok, so here’s the thing: If you’re going to go for theory, really go for it, especially in the rebuttals. Blippy theory arguments are the worst. The same goes for T. Give me an in-depth analysis as to why the aff/neg (for theory) is being abusive, unfair, killing education, stealing ground, etc. Don’t just say “4. Education, 5. Fairness, Next.” That’s not going to cut it.

DAs/CPs
Fine with me. Just explain the story of the CP well and how it solves for the Aff’s harms plus some sort of net-benefit. I’m a big fan of DAs especially paired with Ks (as long as they don’t contradict), so go for it!

*Perm
I have to know what the perm is/looks like/functions/etc. I have seen debaters change the perm in-round, not explain it at all, and basically just say “Perm” at the end of their block thinking that it’ll save them, and it always ends horribly. Have a few cards in your files specific to the perm, or if you’re neg, answering the perm. 

K/Performance
Ran them, love them! On the neg, please please please garner specific links. If you really explain generic links well, you’ll still get by, but specificity is important. I’m totally cool with both aff/neg using personal memoirs, poems, music, etc. just explain why what you’re doing is important in the context of the debate round and in the context of debate at-large.

Framework
Not my favorite, but I’ll listen. A few things: Don’t claim that “debate is going to die and everyone is going to quit because of performance teams”; I’m not going to buy that. I do think education is the biggest impact of the round, but there’s other, better ways to approach that argument. Also, if you’re going to offer a plan enacted by the USFG, it better solve for all the harms of the aff.

Speaker points
I’m pretty generous with speaker points. Try not to read cards in the rebuttals. If it’s the 1nr that’s fine, and it’s also fine for the 1ar (just keep them to a minimum, e.g. 1-2 cards max). I prefer if the rebuttals are heavy on analysis and weighing arguments. Don’t forget about impact calc! There’s lots of different ways to spin impact calc, and from experience, I know it’s more subtle for varsity debaters, but make sure it’s there. Also, be funny, approachable, and nice. No racist/sexist/etc. comments in-round pleaseeeeee. If you want to throw stacks and be funny, go for it, as long as it doesn’t go too far. Oh, and, have fun!!!!
  