
  My debate experience consists of four years for St. Ignatius High School in Cleveland, Ohio. This consisted of a mix of local and national circuit experience. I will do my best to fairly evaluate your round, but there are a few things you should be aware of that may influence the outcome of your round. I have listed them in order of importance to me for your convenience:

1. Cheating-
Don’t do stuff that is specific to screw over your opponents outside of your speeches. This includes stuff like purposely turning the podium away from them, flashing corrupted versions of your speech, talking loudly during your opponents’ prep, etc. Don't do anything that is actually cheating like card clipping either obviously.

2. The K- 
If you recognize my name, it’s probably from debating with Cameron Colella. He was a big fan of the K and was pretty well read on a lot of the literature. I am not. This doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t run a K in front of me (I always hated when judges say because it kind of does mean you shouldn’t run it), but just be sure to clearly explain everything and be aware that I may not be able to comprehend it on the level you want.

3. Politics disads-
Politics disads are to disads as T-should is past tense is to topicality. Well not quite that extreme, but I’ve always been a hard sell on politics disads, and tend not to spot the neg as much ground on them as most judges do. I will evaluate it just like any other disad or argument, I just think I should give fair warning that I find many affirmative answers extremely persuasive, but it’s still up to affirmative to convince me in the round.

Other notes: 
I don’t really have an extra threshold for T or theory. If you win the argument and win why I should vote on it, I will.
Go whatever speed you want, but be sure to be clear. Take extra time for tags for now, because I've been away from debate for several months now, so it may take a couple rounds for me to completely get my ears back.
Speaker points will basically be a reflection of your skill as a debater, but may receive a small boost for humor or references to things that I like.
I’m not yet very familiar with this year’s topic. I want to know from the beginning of the round what everyone is talking about, so please explain any acronyms. Aside from the speed aspect, if the average college student couldn’t understand your space proposal, then you need to explain more.
Tag-team cross-x is fine by me.
I’m open for uses of prep at any time in the round, aside from during a speech.
I won’t take prep to flash a speech to the other team, just keep it reasonable and don’t steal prep.
Feel free to ask me any other questions that you have before a round.
  