
  I debated for four years of college NPDA/NPTE style parli, which, if
you're not familiar with it, is sort of like HS circuit policy without
cards. I was generally a policy making debater, but in my final year I
ran the K quite a lot, so I'm comfortable with it. I've been judging
Varsity LD on and off for two years, but it's more off than on.

Here's the tl;dr if you're reading this right before a round:
1. Speed, theory, k's, procedurals are totally fine.

2. My background is not in LD and I have not read anything about this
topic, so feel free to go fast but explain everything and tell me why
it matters in the round. Especially important: slow down on tags so I
have pen time, indicate clearly to me when you've switched from one
argument to another (numbering is great, but can be confusing because
many cards have internal numbering, so "next" works well.)

3. Economics and politics probably need less explanation. Philosophy
(framework, especially) needs more.

4. Theory in LD is much more complex and sophisticated than anything I
ever dealt with, and while I love a good theory debate, I find that
it's the most perishable skill in debate, so please please please be
clear, be organized, and tell me how theory arguments interact. The
easiest way to win my ballot on questions of theory is to prove some
theory argument is the internal link to all other theory arguments,
for example.

5. I have some competence in debate and I'm reasonably intelligent,
but, like most circuit judges, I am not as smart as you think I am and
especially not as smart as I think I am. Keep that in mind.

So you're still here? Alright. Here's the long form birth
certificate---I mean, judging philosophy. (Hurray for references that
will be dated in four years!)

Speed/Communication:


1) If you are clear I will be able to flow you. Please allow for pen
time, though. The buzzwords in LD are different than Parli so my
shorthand is not as developed. Make sure your tags are clear. I will
call for cards if necessary. If I do not understand your argument in
round, I will not use cards to clarify my lack of understanding; I
will only use cards to resolve a dispute about what evidence does or
does not say. It's the debater's job to communicate arguments clearly.
I know that sucks---I've been on the receiving end of enough "judge
told me to make the argument I actually did make" decisions for three
debate careers, but it's the only way we can play the game.

2) I will yell clear for clarity, loud for loudness. I will yell these
many times if need be, because I do really want to understand you, but
if you persist, I won't keep yelling all round.

3) Please ignore my nonverbal. During debate rounds, I'm very focused
on being as fair as I can to you, so my facial control goes out the
window. My happy face doesn't mean you're winning, and my sad face
doesn't mean you're losing. My lack of flowing may mean I'm confused,
or it may mean I've already written enough of the argument to satisfy
me.

4) Please do not reference arguments solely by card author. I don't
know how y'all remember which argument goes by which author, but I do
not have that mental muscle. It is fine to reference authors---that
will probably be helpful I need to call for cards---but you must at
least give me a quick reference to the argument itself for me to be
able to follow you.


Theory:

My biggest disclaimer is that while I enjoy theory debate, I've found
that LD theory debate is much higher level than that in NPDA parli,
and has different nuances because of the different structure. Please
be clear where your answers to theory are (on the counterinterp, on
the violation, etc.) and what their function is. The easiest way to
win my ballot here is to weigh your various theory arguments against
each other, and explain to me why this means you win. (I've judged
rounds where the debater explained to me afterwards why a five second
theory argument should've won them the round. The debater was right,
but the explanation in round to communicate that argument was
insufficient. )

I accept whatever arguments are presented to me. If those arguments
are not made, here is how I default:

1) RVIs in Parli are stupid, but I understand that in LD the community
norms are different, so I'm fine with them in this space.

2) Theory comes before pre-fiat comes before post-fiat

3) I default to a framework of competing interpretations. Potential
abuse can be just as bad as real abuse, but you need to explain why.


What arguments you should run in front of me:

I'm comfortable enough with LD now that I don't have a bias towards
plan/CP debate. Feel free to mix it up. Part of the reason I judge is
to learn.

Kritiks:
I really, really, really like the K, because I think it is an
incredibly valuable way to confront our most basic assumptions about
society. K's are fantastic and cool and wonderful. BUT DO NOT RUN THEM
IF YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND THEM. The K works well when you understand not
only what the argument says but also why the argument explains why you
win the round. Yelling "they use biopower" is not enough; you need to
give me reasons why their use of biopower means I should vote against
them. Talk about role of the ballot, tell me why your alt solves, and
tell me why I should vote for you.

Extensions:
1) Extensions. I am not okeh with shadow extensions. It's fine to say
"extend the Domalewski card" (I live for the day someone says that, by
the way), but do not use the next speech to explain how that card
interacts with an argument your opponent made. I will not allow
"extend x" in one speech to become magically explained in the 2AR.

Speaks:
My range is from 27-30. 28 is average, 27 is below average, 26 and
below is probably racist. 28.5 is above average, 29 is "you will
probably clear", and 29.5-29.8 is "you are likely to win this
tournament." Anything above and I will be actively recruiting you to
join my future Presidential campaign, both because I am in awe of your
talents and terrified that if you do not join me you will destroy me.

I reward, in this order:
1. Good strategic choices. Do you have a crafty, strategic case? Do
you collapse to the right places throughout the round? Do you use your
opponent's mistakes against him/her? Do you see the outs your opponent
has, and shut them down?
2. Clarity. To quote my good friend Om Alladi, "structure is KEY. I
really like structured arguments. this does not mean subpoints etc.
but labelling of arguments. if you tag every argument with the
appropriate function, ie '1) not true- 2) alt causality 3) solvency
takeout' i will appreciate it immensely."
3. Innovation/cleverness. Running a weird interpretation or unique
contentions will earn you points. I like creativity.
4. These things will TANK your speaker points: rudeness, being mean to
novices, spreading out people who ask you to slow down, intentionally
being unclear, racist/sexist/homophobic language. Read the room: being
aggressive and dominant is fine against a debater that is equal to
you in skill, but comes off as bullying to someone who is less
experienced.
  