
  A few things-
I tend to stick to the flow evaluating offense/defense unless you tell me otherwise - A dropped argument is not necessarily a round winner for my ballot
Basically I will vote on whatever you tell me is most important and I am willing to listen to anything you want to read in front of me.
Be respectful - we are all here to have a good debate

T: To be honest I have never been a very good T debater and I think T debates are a big pain to judge. If the rebuttals do boil down to topicality please slow down so I can get all the nuances of the debate. Limits and predictability are not impacts they are internal links. Discussing how limits and predictability affect debate/ research/ neg prep and what that means in terms of education etc. (This also goes for framework debates!!!). 

Theory: I will usually never vote for theory as a reason to reject the team unless it's a Condo debate. Generally, I think reasonable conditionality (example: 1 Kritik and 1 CP) is a good thing but condo bad arguments can be used strategically to get the aff out of a bind. On theory arguments that are not Condo I am more neg leaning but am open to being persuaded by either team and it really just comes down to the flow.

Kritiks: I enjoy Kritiks feel free to run them aff and neg. I am well versed with feminist / gender theory, although I am familiar with other critical literature bases. The link debate is the most important part of a critique for me. Superb impact analysis does not matter if there is no link to the 1AC. I also think that performative links are valid arguments and can be used as reasons for why the perm does not solve. 
I think the role of the ballot is to vote for who wins their arguments and does the better debating. If you say the role of the ballot is something else, you still have to win that it is the best role of the ballot so I would vote for you becuase you're winning your arguments... 
I generally think the aff should get perms although can be persuaded otherwise in an instance where the aff is not about the resolution.


Aff framework vs. the k - probably will never vote on "you don't get a k when you're neg". Your interp should probably say you should get to weigh your imapcts vs. the K.
Performative/Non-Traditional - I think the aff should be about something pertaining to the topic and reccomend something be done that is different than the status quo (does NOT have to be a plan or involve the United States Federal Government). If the aff chooses to not do this, they'll have to win why the topical version of the aff can't solve for the performance/discussion that the aff began and win an impact turn to framework. In terms of impact analysis. You should be able to explain what reasonable neg ground exists versus your aff that is within the realm of topic-reltaed research. That said, I'll still vote for an aff that is not about the topic if they win their impact turns to framework/accessibility questions. (*** Basically lifted this section from Maddie Langr's judge philosophy because I agree). 

CPs: They're necessary for almost every policy oriented 1NC. If you win you solve the aff than you don't need to win a huge risk of your offense to get my ballot.

DAs: Defense alone is not enough to beat a DA for me there is usually never a 0% risk of a link or impact. Same goes for neg, a DA without good case take outs is not enough to win and you always need good DA turns case arguments. Impact calculous generally filters my decision for case v. disad debates. As for politics theory such as intrinsicness, vote no, etc. I will vote on it but I usually think it only belongs in the 2AR if the neg has messed something up.
  