
  Current Affiliation: None
Prior Affiliation: Valley High School (IA)
Education: Wooster High School, currently attending Grinnell College (IA)
Experience: Debated for four years at Wooster High School (OH) (graduated 2011); previously an assistant varsity policy coach at Valley (2012-2013).

Note: I have found that my preferences vary almost daily. This is a good rule of thumb about basic arguments and strategies, but feel free, and please do, ask questions prior to the round starting. Often at tournaments I find myself becoming annoyed at some argument I keep hearing and, while running this argument does not automatically mean a ballot against you, I'm much less likely to give it as much thought as I would some other argument.

Preferences:

I would say I’m Tab, but I also know that no judge is completely Tab, and thus I must qualify this statement with “but I default to policy maker.”


Disads: Generally good. I prefer more believable scenarios, but apparently have started to vote on stranger stuff. Note: I don't like to vote for strange things, but if you're winning it, my personal preferences will not lead to a loss.
 You can run a generic disad- just have a link- okay? Which brings me into the discussion on how I evaluate DAs- I truly and honestly believe an aff can fatally mitigate a disad at any level. What I mean is: if you don’t have a link to the aff, the uniqueness and impact don’t matter. Now, in the grey areas of mitigated evidence and good argumentation this completely goes down to who frames the debate better on which level of the disad I should look towards, but defense is good, I guess is what I’m trying to say.

Counterplans: Run them, if you so please. I don’t especially like Consult/Conditions mainly because these debates turn into discussions on what function a colon has in the resolution (and, like a normal colon, I think it’s full of shit), as opposed to the substance of the literature. I like specific evidence for generic counterplans, though. This also means that affs are likely to get far with an evidence press on specificity of negative evidence. 
I think the main focus of a counterplan for me is such: if the affirmative has to have a solvency advocate, and specific links, and internal links, and whatever, so must the negative. That being said, it’s just an argument preference- you still must actually debate the argument out.

Kritiks: Yes, but do it well. Slow down on tags and cites so I know what you’re trying to say in 1NC- also, maybe look at tags. It's difficult to flow a block of text at rapid speeds and often kritikal cards have tags longer than the cards themselves. Please be concise.

Topicality: Do it well. I’ll vote on it like any other argument, though I may have a higher threshold. “Dropping” doesn’t mean an automatic neg ballot. Misuse of effects T and Extra T annoy me.

Theory: I’ll vote on it- interesting theory makes my day. Bad theory makes me sad. Impacted theory (and impacted well) makes me happy. I usually won’t vote on potential abuse if you can’t articulate why the potential is unique to this one case or round.
And please, don't just read blocks upon blocks upon blocks.

Speed: Do it. Be clear. I’ll yell. If I don’t hear you, you can’t get on me for missing an argument. If you have the tendency to be quiet while spreading, please consciously try to be louder. While I may interrupt if I really can't hear, I don't like to because: 1) it usually tends to confuse the debater and 2) the debater should be aware and responsible for clear delivery.

Things that will get you docked:

Use of “gay” or “retarded” as an insult.Being overtly mean with no sarcasm or hint of jestPhysical threatsBeing an asshole
Philosophy on Paperless: I think that most people are greatly hindered by it, and it also wastes a lot of time. If I notice that debaters are taking excessive amounts of time to flash then prep time will be used up until the point you pull the jump drive out of your computer. No matter what, you should give all evidence to the other team before starting, and you shouldn't start until the other team has the file open. I just think that's courtesy.

Be smart. Debate well.

Also- I like raspberry iced tea and lemon pastries. Use this knowledge as you wish.
  