
  Updated 02/17/18

I’m a sophomore at Northwestern--I debated for 4 years (1 at Flower Mound 3 at Greenhill). I did LD. I suppose I will just talk about how I feel about args here because that’s what most judges do.

Basic Stuff
Please do an email chain. Email: greenhilldocs.ld@gmail.com
Really really slow debates tend to bore me.
Do not have a justice vs. morality debate.
Please do not feel obligated to fill all of your speech time. if you have definitively won the debate 30 seconds into a speech, you're not doing anyone any favors by talking for the rest of the time.
The short version is "you do you" and do whatever you think will best help you win. Most of this is just which arguments I like. As the mighty Varad Agarwala once said, "I would rather see a good Kant v whatever kant responds to debate, than a poorly adapted K debate." (except I actually like Kant)
I'll presume neg if the neg defends the status quo and aff if the neg defends something other than the status quo.
I have no interest in judging debates about bad theory arguments. They are bad, boring, and pointless. If you make a theory argument so bad that it deserves to be laughed at, I just won't vote on it. This doesn't apply to many arguments. For example, arguments that are fair game are CP theory, plans good/bad, some spec args, AFC good/bad, etc. This is only meant to exclude really awful arguments like "neg may only make 2 arguments," "must spec CP status in speech," and "must spec what you meant when you said 'competing interps.'" Good theory debates are awesome and fun to judge and strategic theory is fine, but theory debates about arguments this bad are honestly just not worth my time.
I value explanation a lot and I'm sympathetic to new spin/weighing against under-developed arguments. In particular, I've found that I vote aff in a lot of debates in which the neg goes for a ton of arguments, each of which could be a winning 2NR but end up getting very under-explained. The best debaters I've seen collapse in rebuttals, give overviews, and weigh.
I am unlikely to be convinced that something categorically outweighs something else (e.g. .01% risk of extinction outweighs, fairness outweighs everything no matter what, etc.). Your weighing arguments should be contextual/comparative.
I also agree with a lot of the stuff in Elijah Smith's paradigm (https://www.tabroom.com/index/paradigm.mhtml?search_first=elijah&search_last=smith) so if something is unclear here, you can look at that. Except the stuff about pessimism vs. settler colonialism debates, which I know next to nothing about.

Framework (Philosophy)
I like framework/phil debates a lot--they can be pretty fun. That being said, you should 1] actually know what your authors say and 2] be able to coherently explain it. Good framework debates are awesome, but don't try it if your strategy is to just use every buzzword you know.
Don’t really care if you use a traditional value/standard setup, burdens, ROB stuff, whatever really.

CP
Winning 1 condo bad is an uphill battle.

K
You should be able to tell me what the alt does/looks like. I don’t care if it’s “reject the aff” as long as you can tell me what happens when we reject the aff. Who should reject the aff? Things like this are important.
Good K debates can be really really good and interesting, and bad ones are just dreadful--there's rarely an in-between. Please don't be a bad one.
Also you shouldn’t read bad K’s with generic links. If you clearly have no idea what you’re talking about, your speaks will suffer. Probably.
In K aff vs. T debates I've voted for T more often and in K vs. perm debates I've voted for perms more often. Obviously these are not set in stone.
High theory (Baudrillard, Deleuze, Bataille, etc.) is not something I have a good understanding of at all. I will vote on these arguments, but I won't vote on something that I can't coherently explain, so the bar for explanation is pretty high. In general, you should assume I am not very well-read on your K lit.

Theory/T
I like T debates a lot. Clear comparison of what each interp looks like and impact calc on T make me really happen and if you can go for T (or answer it) very well I will be like “woah :O” and probably give you good speaks. T is always a reason to reject the debater (e.g. it's not a reason to reject the argument, not "I will never vote on T bad").
Read theory if you want and think you have at least a reasonable story. RVIs make me sad and reasonability seems compelling but I think if you can demonstrate a clear disad to their interp you’ll be fine.
I am very unlikely to vote on a "risk of offense" argument on theory. I'm inclined to think that the debater initiating theory has to generate a real/substantial advantage to their interpretation that I could describe without using the term "risk of offense".
Also, don’t read affs that are like 3 minutes of spikes.

Disclosure
Please do it--if you don't disclose and the person you're debating mentions it, your speaks will suffer. Also, if disclosure theory is read, I'll vote for it pretty much no matter what as long as 1] they actually didn't disclose 2] it's not being used against debater who is clearly far less experienced.
"The affirmative must tell the negative what the aff is before the debate, unless it is a new aff. If it is a new aff, the affirmative does not have to tell the negative what the aff is/what the advantages are/what the advocacy text is/anything. All they need to say is 'new aff.'" ~ Varad Agarwala
To clarify, this means that I, for lack of better words, hack for disclosure theory. I don't really like judging debates that are like "but my computer was broken!" so please don't make me. I'll also evaluate full text disclosure/new affs bad/etc. just like any other theory argument.
If you have a team policy that mandates non-disclosure, STRIKE ME.

Speaks
I will give speaks based on how well I think you should do at the tournament since I pretty much view them as a tiebreaker for clearing/seeding. Short version: good at debate in this round = good speaks. Also, I give higher speaks to reward arguments I think are good/enjoyable to listen to/generally fun (i guess you can ask if you want to know what arguments I find enjoyable, but I hope everything above has given some indication). I also give good speaks for good strategy.
Last year, I gave my highest speaks for (mostly) very good T debates and very good framework debates.
I try to average a 28. Last year I averaged a 28.14.
Here's a rough scale of how I'll give speaks:
30 = you should win everything. the only 30 I've given was to Jack Wareham, so if to attain a 30 you must debate roughly as well as him.
29.5-29.9 = you should be in late elims
29-29.5 = you should definitely clear
28.5-29 = you're on the bubble/probably should clear
28-28.5 = you're on the bubble/probably shouldn't clear
27.5-28 = average
26.5-27.5 = you made some important strategic errors/lacked a clear strategy
<26.5 = you probably did something to really annoy me

Things I Won't Vote On
A prioris*
Racism/etc. good
Moral skepticism*
Trivialism*
Awful theory args*
*I would vote on those if your opponent did something even worse. For example, I may vote on an a priori if my only options were that and skep.
  