
  Background
 I debated for Fayetteville High School for 2 years, and graduated in 2013. I'm currently enrolled at the University of Arkansas. My paradigms WILL change somewhat over the course of the year, especially around the beginning of the season, so I suggest reading this before the round if you know you're going to have me as a judge.
MISC
 Both teams better be polite to each other, the timekeeper (if there is one), the audience, and me. I'm serious about this. You'll lose speaker points and I may consider it when making my final decision.
Dress- I like a nice suit or nice clothes, especially nice watches. It shows respect and I'm sure it boosts your confidence. It wont affect your speaks or my decision.
Have fun. I'm really relaxed and I'm not viewing this as a presidential candidate debate, I'm viewing it as a high school debate round.
Don't run silly/troll arguments. I said have fun but that doesn't mean you get to waste my time.
Please know how long and in what order the speeches are. Please be prepared to debate.
Speed- Ask me in round. 
Jokes are usually good. 
No ad hoc arguments.
If I find that you have stolen anyone's files, it will be bad...just don't do it.
Big one: Make sure you're on focused, and do not jump around on the flow. My flow is going to be very important in determining a winner, so make sure you're following it very closely.
Disclosure
 Before round disclosure - I strongly encourage both teams to disclose before round. It's just good practice and if you're scared to lose because you're disclosing, you DESERVE to lose. It would be even better if y'all use the wiki. Don't lie to each other, I may consider it a voting issue.
Cross X
You should be using up ALL of your time in these sessions and asking really good questions. A good question is NOT "How much does your plan cost?"
Build on previous questions, and try to use strategy to pin them into a corner here.
This is also a good time to ask clarity questions so that you and I will know what their plan is actually doing. Remember I'm not in debate and I haven't researched the topic.
Topicality
 Novice: Go ahead and run it if you're just learning it, and it wont be beneficial at all to run more than one of these
Man, I sure hated T when I debated. If there's lit, and especially if there's stuff on OpenEvidence about the case, I WILL NOT listen to T. You better have a real reason for running it, because there are much more intelligent and creative things you could be doing. On the aff side I'll listen to nearly anything here, just make sure to cover Counter Interp and all that.
Standards are important. -Education outweighs quite a bit of other stuff. *Hint*
UNFATHOMABLY HIGH threshold to win.
Disadvantages
I think Negative teams should run these. A good link is your best bet for winning my vote, as well as real-world, thought out scenarios. 
I typically don't like PTX DA's, it's just too generic.
I think all Internal link chains and their impacts are very unlikely and even silly, but I'll evaluate them.
I want to hear the link story. Refer to the 2NR/2AR section.
Counterplans
 I really hate CPs. If you run it make sure it's really darn good. To me theory is a great way to combat these things
2NR/2AR
Do a lot of work explaining and clearing things up. Tell me why you should win. Don't tell me "We should win because they dropped spending DA", tell me "We should win because spending $$ on their plan will cause (internal link) and that will cause Nuclear War/Extinction, etc."
Kritiks
 I know a thing or two about K's (I'm very familiar with a lot of them), and I would be happy to hear them, especially from novice, if done properly. Please don't use a round as an experimental area for your K. Know more or less what you're doing. Novice: Don't run anything really complicated. You probably don't understand it and the other team wont learn anything.
Theory
 Know what you're saying here. Don't read your varsity's A-J theory blocks. That wont win the round.
  