
  Justin V. Edwards

NFL Qualifier
LD Captain Hillcrest High School
UC Berkeley Graduate 2005
BS Chemical Engineering

TOC Tournaments Judged:
UC Berkeley 2004

I have been judging LD debate for approximately four years. I have a profound understanding of all types of philosophy. I am affiliated with Hillcrest High School, and have only judged approximately six rounds on this topic. However, I have research this topic through and through as a volunteer coach for the Hillcrest LD squad. My paradigm is as follows: In a nutshell I am a tabula rasa judge. Whatever you bring forth during the debate round with be what I will consider in the round. I will not include any of my personal thoughts into how I judge the round, right or wrong. I like a good value to value, criteria to criteria debate that includes topicality. I do not like a spread and kill, and disregard straw person facilies unless your opponent drops the argume and you tell me to flow it through. I want you to tell me what to vote on and enjoy crystallization. I hold true to a good framework, resolutional analysis, or value-criteria premise. I want both competitors to be on topic and I will disregard any such notion that the affirmative has to create a policy for how to enforce compulsory immunization. If you bring up a good philosophy that is credible and quoted correctly and in context I will give you added bonus points. I don't care for performance and don't mind speed, but if you are not nice to your opponent, I will not be happy. Treat your opponent life your mother, and don't tell me why you have already won the round and I will smile and give you good points. I believe LD is all about the question "why" and I want both competitors to philosphyically (but with evidence to back it up) convince as though I am looking at Ayn Rand arguing John Locke. Good luck and may the best and honorable competitor be victorious.

P.S. If you have any questions or comments after the tournament preferably or after the round, I welcome them. I know when I was in high school, I always wanted as much constructive criticsm as possible. Thank You and Good Luck.
  