
  
What you need to know:
1.) I'm Kelly. College debater, late to the debate game. Parli sucks; I do it anyway. 
2.) If you're funny and/or irreverent, I want to vote for you. I won't without good reason to. 
3.) Tech>Truth
4.) Process Counterplans are gross. I'll hear you out but ew.
5.) Theory=debating about debate. Give me something more substantive than education/fairness please. Impact debate is best debate.
6.) Ignore me though; I'll listen to anything, and I'd rather you tell me both how to vote and what to vote on. 
7.) Slow your theory down. Way down. 
8.) Don't be a jerk. 
9.) Flex prep is obviously fine. Keep each other honest by timing opponents' prep. 
10.) I am pretty easy with speaker points. I don't really give out 30's (means there's no room to improve, and there always is). If you're a jerk, I'll drop your speaks a lot. If you jump around the flow and are messy, don't explain things, or make my job annoying, I'll drop your speaks a little. But I'm generally pretty generous.


Plan text debate? Yeah. Of course. The more specific, the better though. And yes, all planks are up for debate.

Krit Affs? Yes. Love. You will have a legit hard time convincing me they have no place in debate. Familiar with most of the lit. Go nuts.

Disads? Yeah, of course. Linear, nonlinear, politics, yep. 

Counterplans? Covered. Yes, (though conditionality is a thing I like to see, please have this debate if Neg has at least one conditional world) PICs are fine. 

P.S. Cross applying your overview to the line-by-line in rebuttal speeches is annoying to flow. I'll probably miss things. And I hate underviews, I don't know why people do this; don't be this person; save a tree.

A word on LD and PoFo though (I get stuck judging these a lot)

DON'T BE A JERK. 

FOR LD: Capitalizing on the time differential on the neg by running excessive theory is gross. I won't drop you for running theory mainly. But I kind of wish you wouldn't, and my sympathy will go Aff because I think it's really unfair to capitlize on something your opponent literally can't do anything about.
RVI's aren't a thing. Spreading is not inherently abusive. 

FOR PoFo: PoFo=net benefits debate. I honestly don't think there's enough time for a real framework debate in this format, and it's kind of a waste of time.  
 

 
  