
  Jasmine Elchazli
High School: Cinco Ranch and Seven Lakes High School 
High School Debate Experience: Debated all throughout my academic career, attempting every single Speech and Debate event so I am familiar with the protocol for each (having personally experienced them). Attended countless tournaments within Texas, participated in fundraisers with my debate team, and assisted in tournaments within the district. Held multiple officer positions throughout my four years of high school debate experience. 
College: University of Houston 
Current Debate Team: 
Rounds judged this year: 0
Years Judging: 3
Current Job: Full-time college student 
Other info: I believe that debate is a wonderful competitive sport that challenges students to achieve higher, intellectual thinking. The essence of debate is to supplement your own knowledge, while enriching that of others through impassioned, and researched argument and verbal battle. Ultimately, it should help the student grow, and overall have fun. 


Paradigm - I have competed in Speech and Debate for all four years of my high school career, and judged at multiple tournaments during that time for Junior High Schools. I have participated in PF, LD, Extemp, Impromptu, Prose, Poetry, HI, and DI. I believe that debate should be a learning experience that enriches the debaters knowledge while supplementing the knowledge of others. I do take note of the structure of the arguments (Value, value criterion, contentions) etc. I will not tolerate any personal attacks to opposing members of a debate. I do leave a lot of critiques simply to help each participant further develop their skills (as that is what helped me). I tend to listen for credibility and evidence-- if the competitor spent his or her time on the case, he/she will have plenty of evidence to support their contentions. The competitor should conduct themselves professionally, demonstrate mastery of knowledge on their given resolution, or smooth presentation based upon the nature of the event they are competing in. Overall, I urge all competitors to have fun and really take what they can out of the tournament as it is a great way to develop higher level thinking. 
On a scale of 1 (Traditional) and 11 (Kritikal) - 4
Favorite Debate Argument: Government/politically oriented debates that impact a mass group of people, therefore making it controversial and pressing. 
Least Favorite Argument: Topics that hardly impact the community as whole, or irrelevant to the average American citizen, and furthermore humanity. 
Won't vote on: Religiously controversial arguments are tough to vote on as they require elimination of strongly rooted predisposed bias. 
Other broad preferences: 


Specifics - 
Likely to vote on (1 is low, 5 is high)
Topicality 4
Theory 4
Disads 3
Counterplans 4
Kritiks 4


A good debate about Topicality Anything the directly involves a large group of people. 
A good debate about Theory:
Passion and genuine belief backed up with some corroboration. 
A good debate about disads: Solid research and good structure to the argument. 
A good debate about counterplans:


A good debate about Kritiks: 


Other specific argument prefences: 



Other Things:
Speed: 3
Their flow: 2
Comments on flowing/speed: The opposing party should still be able to understand the speaker. 


Gives good speaker points (1 is low, 10 is high) - Self rated-
8
Factors for speaker points: Clarity, eloquence. 


Other:
  