
  Eddie Elizondo

I debated LD for 4 years at United High School in Laredo, Texas. I'm currently a student at the University of Pennsylvania.

Argumentation: I'm pretty open to anything, to be honest. I will never discredit an argument on my own. That will solely be your opponent's job. The more unique, analytical, and generally unexpected your argument is, the better. I am not an expert in philosophy in any way, so a short one sentence introduction to a particular philosophy you are running will go a long way. Signposting is a great help. Voting issues with weighing are encouraged. As always, please direct me to the result of the round. There should be a clear, definitive reason why you won. Your standard/criterion is vital unless you successfully convince me otherwise. I see standards as the weighing mechanism in the round, so I will come in with that notion unless you tell me otherwise in your case. You're expected to weigh in a clear and systematic way.

A priori: They can be good, but sometimes debates can get so bogged down in pre-standard/a priori arguments that we don't debate what we should be debating. Please exercise control.

Theory: Unless there is a serious violation or incidence of abuse, you will be better off using your time on an actual argument.

Speed: I am fine with you going fast, but to a reasonable extent. The faster you go, the chance your argument misses my flow exponentially increases. Please slow down for important tags, cards, etc. If you see me not really flowing, you're going too fast.

Other/Rant: I'd prefer rounds without flex-prep and case exchanges, but whatever. I believe flex-prep deemphasizes the importance of effective CX strategy, and case exchanges decrease attention in the round. If either debater does not want to participate in flex-prep or case exchanges, I won't hold it against him or her.

Speaker Points: Your speaker points are a function of how analytical and generally awesome your argumentation is. An average debater will get around a 25. The average for a particular tournament, though, may be higher since a tournament can have a large number of “above average” debaters. A half-point may be assigned if allowed. I will never hesitate awarding high speaks for a good performance. Also, if you are rude or disrespectful to your opponent, you will lose point(s). 30s are reserved for debaters with exceptional argumentation and articulation (although I have yet to award a 30.)


If you have any questions at all, please don't hesitate to ask me. I want to make debate as fun for you as it was for me in high school. Good luck!
  