
  Andy Ellis
Towson university - Judging at the NDT for Marist College
Rounds on topic: 30

Judge Philosophy: I have for the most part given up on trying to structure debates into some vision I have of how a debate should be. So my basic philosophy is that I will allow the 4 debaters to shape and determine the debate as they would like. *Note in this regard*-If both teams agree to allow a judge other than myself to judge the debate then I will comply, *Regardless of the silly and baseless impositions of the tab room, in fact stupid tab room administrators are more likely to convince me this is a good idea than if they would just stay quiet.*

*
That all being said there are some things I like and some things I don't.

5 of each should suffice.

5. I like it when there is a purpose to your debating, I think the resources that we use are hugely valuable and I think there are some responsibilities that come along with getting access to those resources, your purpose doesn't have to agree with my political ideologies.

4. I like well explained and developed arguments that don't expect me to take "extend the Dillon" as a sufficient 2nr argument

3. I like impact and link analysis.

2. I like cards to be used in the debate not just read.

1. I like being able to flow the debate if you want me to (easier said then done im not that great on the minutia of some ans or the speed of others.)

5. I don't like exclusionary debate practices.

4. I don't like reading more than two or three cards per team after the debate.

3. I don't like theory debates that don't give me pen time yet expect me to vote on them when they are dropped.

2. I don't like the simplistic version of the fiat is illusory assumption, you need to compare the effects of the discourse you are criticizing vs the benefits it accrues.

1. I don't like it when people have questions about a judging philosophy and don't attempt to clarify. I wont bite or any thing. I'm nice.

*Conclusion:* Many of you will doubt that I can shed my previous judging philosophies, and that may be an indication of what I do like, but I will make my best effort to evaluate the debates that I am presented with by the debaters…Thanks
  