
  I debated for Winston Churchill High School in San Antonio, Texas for four years, qualifying for TFA, UIL, and NSDA in LD debate. I competed on the Vanderbilt policy debate team for a year. I currently coach Hillwood High School and judge at tournaments in the Nashville Urban Debate League.

I have experience on the national circuit, but have been out of the community for a while so I am not up to date with whatever is happening in debate. The debate I judge now is very lay. Keep this in mind when deciding what positions to run.

General
I am happy to listen to whatever argument you are passionate about, but am most comfortable evaluating policy style arguments. I ask that you explain your arguments and keep the flow clean and concise. My speaker points will average around 28 – you will receive bonus points if you break down the round for me. I will dock points for rudeness.

Speed
Slow down for tags/advocacies/plan texts/interpretations. Please share your case that you are reading with your opponent, even if they do not ask.

LARP
I like util debates so I am good with plans, counterplans, disads etc. I prefer specific scenarios over nebulous impacts. Be sure to weigh impacts.

Ks
I only ever read capitalism and security ks. Anything more complicated will require good explanation. You should assume that I know absolutely nothing about whatever you are talking about. I also prefer that the k has a direct link to the topic.

T/Theory
I think topicality is a great strategy, especially given the nature of topic wordings in LD debate. I really like well researched definitions. Like any advantage or disadvantage, give me a clear link story and impact. I default to drop the argument and reasonability – meaning I can intervene if needed. I will not vote on dumb theory arguments even if you win the flow.

Philosophy/Framework
I like to think of framework debates in the same link-internal-impact structure used for other arguments, the core value being the impact. As a result, you should weigh between the frameworks. If you talk about why the other framework fails for a certain reason, be sure to explain why your framework can resolve it.

If you have any questions you can email me at maxengel99@gmail.com or ask me before the round.
  