
  High School: College Park '10
College: University of Arkansas '14

My experience is in LD debate.
Short Version
My paradigm is pretty much the same as everyone else's on the national circuit. I can flow speed as long as it is clear, but slow down especially on taglines & authors. If this is your first time debating on the national circuit then I would suggest that you read the "Long Version" to increase your chances of me voting for you in the round.

Long Version
Speed: SLOW DOWN FOR TAGLINES/AUTHORS/SHORT ANALYTICs, speed is ok (No stumbling or awkward gasp for air). Personally speed is something you train your self for and not all debaters are equipped with the proper skill to pull it off. Anyways, I will yell clear until you are clear but your speaks will suffer after the first time (see "Speaks" for more details).

Speaks: More than likely fall in the 25-29 range.....only few will receive a 30.

Cross-examination: CX is binding typical Q&A session for both debaters....period (I will do no intervening or interpretations of this). I will reward debaters (Increase your speaker points by .5- 2 pts) who are clear and smart in CX. I think that the winner in the CX often wins the round.

Standards:While I'm not particularly attached to the Value/Value Criterion structure. I do prefer that each debater advocate a standard by which I can evaluate the round. Absent a clear standard being won in the round, I will default to a net benefits calculus. Also, if you are running a standard that just functions underneath a broader evaluative standard, I will buy arguments that link to the broader standard as offense. This means that a standard of minimizing torture or maximizing soft power that appeals to a broader standard of consequentialism can't be used to exclude other impacts to consequentialism in front of me. That being said, it doesn't make much of a difference to me who is winning the Value or the Standard. I look to whomever best meets that standard. How the debaters can do that, is entirely up to the debaters.

Extensions: Arguments always need to have a claim, warrant, and impact (Without it LD debate will be just B.S. debate), and so do extensions. If you are just extending the claim and impact in your speeches, don't be surprised when I don't evaluate the argument at all. However, arguments that get dropped need less time investment when getting extended (but you still need to be extending a warrant). Additionally, if an argument shifts when you make the extension, I won't evaluate it so clearly label your arguments. This means that if there are like 4 unlabeled framework arguments in the AC, and you extend them in the 1AR as apriori reasons to affirm, I won't vote for them.

Evidence: I will call for evidence after the round. Any cards that become important I will look at to make sure that the cards are lined correctly which includes leaving out modifiers. I will not vote down a debater for having bad evidence, but I will completely disregard the claim linked to the evidence being made. Please have citations for everything you read. If your opponent requests to look at the evidence you are reading, you have to show him/her.

Critical lit: The rule about confusing rhetoric still applies. There's absolutely no reason to hide your arguments (or typically lack of warrants) in impenetrable dialogue and I will lower your speaks if you do it (25 and lower).

Theory: Theory is an issue of competing interpretations, unless you demonstrate otherwise. If a theory debate occurs, I will vote against the debater who violates the best rule for debate. Theory arguments should be in a complete shell with a positively worded interpretation. The interpretation should specify what each side must or may do. If you initiate a theory debate without an explicit interpretation, I will default to your opponent's counter-interpretation if offered.
Always before or after the round feel free to ask any additional questions you may have.
Have fun and good luck!
Last Updated: 07/01/2012
  