
  I adhere to the NFL Guidelines which promote Debate as a Critical Thinking activity in a Public Presentation milieu. Convince me that your side is, as a general principle, more valid than the other - and present yourself in a respectful and professional manner.

The Debate Resolution requires a stated Value and Value Criterion, and clearly stated arguments which relate to them. I listen for your logic and reasoning. I eagerly await your clash with your opponent's Value Structure and arguments - and then look for your response to the challenge of your own. This attack and defense should flow through each speech so that, ideally, I am persuaded by each debator to agree with his/her position.

In Cross-Examination, the questions should be brief and the answers short and specific. This is NOT the time to refute and comment on your opponent's position - or further your own. Include that in your next speech.

My decisions are based on how well all this is done - within the context of the given resolution. Who resolved the central questions of the resolution (some may be a "wash"), using appropriate support (logic and analysis, relevant research)?
Who clashed with the arguments of the other, and defended and restated the important points of one's own position?
Whose value structure was more valid?

Were you clear and fluent, comprehensible and persuasive?
Did you make eye contact with me (or just read from your papers!) and have good posture?
Did you enjoy yourself :)

Answers to NFL LD Debate Judge Paradigm Card:
1. I have judged LD Debate for 8 years, for Fremd HS in Palatine IL. Have judged fewer than 20 rounds so far this season
(Nov 2011). I also judge Public Forum, and am a former Policy Debater, from Chicago IL.
2A. I prefer Typical Conversational Speed for Delivery. It does weigh heavily in my decision, but I will not vote against a 
student solely for exceeding my preferred rate. (However, if I can't understand you...)
2B. Yes, I do feel a Value and Criterion are required elements of a LD case. The Criterion may be a factor in my decision,
depending on its use in the round.
2C. Final Rebuttals should include both voting issues and line-by-line analysis. Voting Issues should be given at the end
of the final speech. They are not absolutely necessary. The use of jargon should be kept to a minimum.
2D. I decide the winner of the round based on who persuaded me more of his/her position overall, including key arguments.
2E. The use of evidence (analytical and empirical) is almost always necessary (rated 6:7).
2F. I keep detailed notes throughout the round (and cross out points equally argued...so move on!).
  