
  LINCOLN DOUGLAS DEBATE JUDGE PARADIGM
Name: Eric L. Neal School: Lincoln College Prep
State: MO NFL District: Show-Me
Date Submitted: September 19, 2012

1. My experience with LD debate.
A. Current LD coach
B. Former LD competitor
C. Experienced LD judge
D. Former Policy debater
E. Current Public Forum coach or judge
F. Speech Coach
G. Community Judge
H. I am expected to have judges twenty to forty debate rounds this season prior to judging at The Glenbrooks? (select one)

2. My attitudes towards typical LD practices: (Answers are in Bold)
A. What is your preferred rate of delivery?
Slow, conversational style---Typical conversational speed---Rapid conversational speed
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Does the rate of delivery weigh heavily in your decision? Yes / No

Will you vote against a student solely for exceeding your preferred speed? Yes / No (Lack of communication to your opponent or lack of understanding of your arguments on my part due to speed will factor heavily against competitors)

B. How important is the criterion in making your decision?
1. It is the primary means by which I make my decision.
2. It is a major factor in my evaluation.
3. It may be a factor depending on its use in the round.
4. It rarely informs my decision.
Do you feel that a value and criterion are required elements of a case? Yes / No

C. Rebuttals and Crystallization 
1. Final rebuttals should include a) voting issues or b) line-by-line analysis, or c) both.
2. Voting issues should be given a) as the student moves down the flow, b) at the end of the final speech,
or c) either is acceptable.
3. Voting issues are a) absolutely necessary or b) not necessary.
4. The use of jargon or technical language ("extend," "cross-apply," "turn," etc.) during rebuttals is:
a) acceptable or b) unacceptable, or c) should be kept to a minimum.

D. How do you decide the winner of the round? (check the best answer)
1. I decide who is the better speaker regardless of whether they won specific arguments.
2. I decide who is the winner of the most arguments in the round.
3. I decide who is the winner of the key arguments in the round.
4. I decide who is the person who persuaded me more of his/her position overall.
E. How necessary do you feel the use of evidence (both analytical and empirical) is in the round?
Not necessary----------------------Sometimes necessary------------------Always necessary
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 9 10

F. Please describe your personal note-taking during the round.
1. I do not take notes.
2. I only outline the important arguments of each debater's case.
3. I write down the key arguments throughout the round.
4. I keep detailed notes throughout the round.
5. I keep a rigorous flow.

In approximately 100 words or less, please add any brief comments that you feel are appropriate. You might want
to include information about practices that you encourage or discourage in a round. Students should ask question before the beginning of the round if they need clarification. As I mentioned above I strongly value communication. I feel that a Value and a Value criterion are necessary to both an Affirmative or Negative case.
  