
  I believe debate is an incredible extracurricular activity because it allows your voice to be heard and whatever style of argumentation you enjoy to be used. As such, I am willing to vote off of most arguments that are well warranted and impacted back to some sort of framework. The most important things for my ballot are good weighing and crystallization.

Speed:
I emphasize clarity over speed; you can be the fastest person in the world, but if you are not clear, then I will not listen after yelling clear twice. Slow down on tags (Especially for K) and citations, speed through evidence! Emphasis and ethos = more speaker points.

Argumentation:
I have no inherent problems with philosophical positions, but if you are going to read them in front of me, you MUST explain how they interact and what your argument is. I don’t have an incredible understanding of every single card you read, and if I don’t understand it I just won’t vote on it. 

Theory/Topicality can turn into great discussions IF there is actually abuse occurring. If the side alleging an unfairness can convince me that the other side has done something that REALLY IS unfair and that it makes a difference in the debate, he/she will win. If they can't do that, they are whining, therefore if you are gonna get my vote for the T you need to do two things:
1) Invest some time in the debate explaining in detail why what the other person is doing is unfair.
2) Crystallization! Clearly explain why you are winning the T
Sounds basic but you’ll be surprised how many people forget these things.

Kritiks are great if you can clearly explain them. You need to break it down and explain the argument; yelling the word becoming and the word ontology means nothing absent of a sufficient explanation to how those things fit into the debate round. I prefer K’s that possess a specific link to the AC rather than generic blanket links (I’m talking about you “he said money, Alt Cap K time!” people). 

Policy Argumentation- Nothing like a good DA/CP. They are the best debates to judge so make sure to keep them that way by engaging in good substance. Evidence comparison and internal link debate are imperative in this form of argumentation so make sure to do a good job with that.

Speaks- Probz average 28. Be assertive (not rude), humorous, and just an overall strong debater and your speaker points will reflect that.

Final Remarks:
You should assume that I am not up on the literature you have read. You should not expect me to know every acronym or all the latest developments in your DA scenario, nor should you assume that I understand all of the jargon in your K. Briefly explain a concept before jumping into the intricacies of your argument.

glhf
  