
  Experience- 
I have done all debate events, but I have substantially more experience with LD (both traditional and progressive). Four time state qualifier and two time national qualifier. I also competed in PF traditionally and progressively. 
LD Judging Calculus
Framework- 
I prefer to have a framework to weigh the round with. Some sort of weighing mechanism makes the round more clear. I tend to evaluate different impacts though that weighing mechanism presented and won.
Arguments-
I need warrants and impacts. I will vote on most anything not obviously offensive (racism, sexism, homophobia ect.). While I have some familiarity with K's, it is not anything close to being extensive. If you decide to run one, you will probably have to give me more analysis and slow down more for claims and warrants (adding me to an email chain or flashing it won't hurt). I also require clash. 
PF-
A framework is preferred, but not necessary. There needs to be clash and the other team's case must be addressed. My least favorite debates are those that heavily center on only one case because that usually results in a purely defense/offense debate. 
Speaking-
I usually start at 27. That being said, it is difficult to get either a 30 or a 25. 
EXCEPT- If you use progressive techniques (spreading, K's, or excessive theory) against someone who is either traditional or novice without accommodating them I will nuke your speaker points. You are not the better debater if you don't engage your opponent by debating in such a way they don't understand.
I would rank myself as about a 6 as far as speed goes. If I can't understand you I will stop flowing. If I don't flow an argument I can't evaluate it. 
Policy-
I have a bit of experience. Nothing substantial. I can handle speed, but slow for tags and start an email chain or flash. 
Answers to questions-
I don't care where you sit
I don't care if you time on your phone
I don't need to see if your laptop is on airplane
I don't care if you sit or stand for cross
  