
  Debated for South Bay Faith Academy in HS.
Debated for UCLA

About me:
I have been involved in forensics for 7 years. I debated HS policy for 3 years, and then 4 years of college parli debate (I am currently in my 4th year of competition). I view debate as an game of intellect, and therefore I believe that any method of debate is viable when used as a strategic ploy to win. I will try to list my views on the major themes within debate.

The way I evaluate the round:
Being involved in policy and parli (only), I tend to fall back to evaluating the round through the eyes of a policy maker. Unless I am told other wise, I tend to fall back on Net Benefits. This means that i will evaluate the arguments based on how clear the impacts are weighed for me (probability, timeframe, and magnitude). I will however evaluate the round based on how you construct your framework. If (for example) you tell me to ignore the framework of Net Benefits for an ethics based framework... I will do so. On the flip side, I will also listen to arguments against framework from the Neg. You win the framework if you provide me clear warranted arguments for your position, and weigh out why your framework is best. 

Speed: 
I am usually a fast debater and thus I believe that speed is a viable way of presenting as much evidence as possible within the time alloted. I can flow just about anything and I'm confident that you can not out flow me from the round. That being said, I value the use of speed combined with clarity. If you are just mumbling your way through 25 cards on Zizek, I won't be able to flow you. While I won't drop you for the act of being unclear... I will not be able to get everything on the flow (which I am confident is probably just as bad). 

Counter Plans: 
I will listen to any CP that is presented as long as it is warranted. In terms of CP theory arguments... I understand most theory and have been known to vote on it. All I ask is for the theory argument to be justified and warranted out (this also goes for perm theory on the aff). 

Topicality:
I have a very high threshold for T. I believe that there needs to be articulated abuse for me to consider voting on it. THIS DOES NOT MEAN THAT I HATE T. I actually like hearing T debates... I just have a high threshold on T when the neg runs it just to run it. Additionally, I have an extremely high threshold for "RVIs". If the neg decides to kick out of the position, I usually don't hold it against them. I will vote on T if the Aff makes a strategic mistake (it is an easy place for me to vote).

Kritical Arguments:
I believe that any augment that is present is a viable way to win. Kritical arguments fall into that category. I am well versed in many of the theories that most critical arguments are based in. Therefore if you run them i will listen to and vote on them as long as they are well justified. I will not vote on blips as kritical arguments.

Framework:
i will listen to any alt framework that is presented ( narrative, performance, kritical Etc.) If you decide to run a different framework that falls outside the norm of debate... you MUST justify the framework. 

Evidence: Have it (warranted arguments for parli)!

Rudeness: don't be rude!
  