
  Carly Evans
Experience: I am in my 4th years at Baylor and I debated all four years at Oak Park High School (MO)

Disclaimer: I have yet to judge a debate on this topic, and I don't coach a team. It's unlikely I am familiar with your arguments coming into the round.

Generally, I would say do whatever you are comfortable with. Debates where people talk about what they know about/are interested in tend to be much better than when they try to overcorrect for the person in the back of the room. Do what you like.

That being said, my style of debate tends to skew more towards the policy side. I like a good politics debate, I think case debates are have the ability to be immensely interesting, and I get excited over tricky and creative counterplans. I think that the impact debate is super important in all styles (this includes those of the T and Framework variety) and I desperately plead that you do this so I don't have to.

On the subject of kritiks--
I have run and gone for many different types of critical arguments, so feel free to read whatever you think is best for you strategically. One important caveat: I am less familiar with this literature base. Please don't deploy a one-off strategy assuming all know all of the intricacies of your authors argument. Not only is this very likely not the case, it probably won't work out too well for you. A good explanation at the top might be a good way to resolve some of these question.

Theory--
I think that condo is a reason to reject a team, but I think that the interpretation debate is important and often undervalued. Have one, defend it, and then we'll talk. 

Evidence--
Compare it. If you have the choice between reading an additional card or two, or talking about the ones you already have, always default to the latter. I might read cards after the debate to determine how to evaluate them, but I much prefer that happen during the debate itself. 

Finally, and most importantly, I like to have fun in debates. I like to watch/judge debates where people are having fun. Be nice, be funny, be smart, and your points will reflect it.
  