
  Coach at Fairview High School, Boulder, CO (2006 - present)
Former high school CX competitor (class of 06)

I competed in Policy for four years in high school and began coaching as an alternative to competing in college. As a law student, I am interested in watching rounds that are well conceived and well argued. Don't waste my time or yours. Please don't throw whatever theory arg you have in your box at me and hope that I am wowed by your ability to speak quickly. I want arguments to have clear links and be articulated well so that I know how and why you think I should vote for you.

I am fine with speed, but I find that the best rounds are often slower but are more detailed on the flow. Don't think that you will earn high speaks just for outspreading your competition. If you are fast but unclear, you are wasting much more time than you are saving. Bottom line: go with whatever speed you like, but make sure I can understand you. If I can't, it's not on the flow, so you aren't going to win it.

Topicality:
I will definitely listen to your arguments, and may even be compelled to vote here, but please don't use them just as a time suck.

Case/DAs/CPs:
Again, I will listen to pretty much everything. I find that a lot of relevant debate is lost by teams who feel that stock issues are below them. Don't discount case arguments just because you have an awesome generic disad that you just know I will love. By the same token, I will flow your generic arguments, but please give me a link or some form of clash with the case.

Ks:
I am willing and able to listen to and understand your Ks, but make sure that you understand them too. There is nothing worse than a round of debate where one team doesn't understand their argument. However, I have not done much in the way of research on Ks for this topic, so don't assume I know your author and have background knowledge on your argument. Please articulate the point of your K and why I should care about it.

In General:
Give me voters! Tell me why you win, where I can find that on the flow, and why the other team doesn't win there.
Clash! Make sure you are actually addressing the points the other team makes.
Keep it civil. It doesn't make me like you more if you are rude or disrespectful to the other team or their arguments.
  