
  I’m the Director of Debate at the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools. I competed in policy debate for Watertown High School, South Dakota. I’ve been involved with debate since 2002 as a competitor or coach.
Summary: I’ve reached the point of argumentative nihilism – essentially – whatever floats your boat. My interests are also fairly diverse – from inherency to dialectic materialism – I’m a fan of debate in all its forms. In other words – I really will vote on pretty much anything – that said – I don’t claim to have an incredibly deep understanding of critical philosophy or high theory. And as much as I am sympathetic to peace, love and harmony– if I could have a conversation with one person in history – it would be Otto von Bismarck. Stock issues, security k, heg good, topicality, performance, w/e – if you do your craft well, I will appreciate it and reward you for it – if you don’t respect the activity or your opponent’s time/my own – I won’t hesitate to give really low speaks.
I place a high precedent on in-round explanation of warrants and will avoid calling evidence to resolve debates whenever possible. My last caveat that I think you should know – 1) I didn’t participate in college debate 2) I still flow on paper. This means I probably prefer to hear you go slower than you would like to speak. Sorry, I'm not trying to ruin debate, but for the most part—lack of clarity kills me, especially on theory, topicality, etc. Arguments that are 3 words or less aren’t arguments to me – I won’t assume it has an impact until you explain it to me. 
Lastly, I’ll do my best to update this page this year with some basic statistical information on rounds judged, decisions, etc. I’m fortunate enough to be able to hire judges when I feel like it for the most part – so anytime I’m in the pool, it’s because I really want to judge some good debates and provide commentary. 

Niles Township Invitational 
Aff: 2
Neg: 4
Doubles: Neg
Octafinals: Aff

Prelims Total: 
Aff: 2
Neg:4 
Elim Total:
Aff: 1
Neg: 1

Total:
Aff: 3
Neg: 5
  