
  I consider myself a tab judge with the following caveats:

I hate having to decide the framework for the round. Tell me the best way to view the debate and how to weigh the different impacts and implications of arguments.I'm more comfortable in policy and topicality centered debates than abstract critical debates. That shouldn't preclude you from running and going for kritikal positions - just make sure they are really well explained.I have a high threshold for voting on theory arguments. Debates about debate are only fun if you invest time in the arguments as opposed to sneaking in blippy RFD's and hoping the other team drops the argument. Simply reading and extending your 2AC or 2NC theory block is not effectively going for theory.When a round hinges on theory issues, tell me specifically what you want me to do and under what circumstances - give me options with even if statements. If you're negative and you want me to be able to kick the CP for you in the event that I accept the aff's permutation, let me know that.Effectively attacking the other team's quality of evidence and author credentials is a very useful and underutilized strategy.You may use theory as a weapon (RFD) or a tool to gain leverage (Because of X abuse, that entails us to Y), but I prefer the later in most instances.There's a direct correlation between the quality of your explanations of arguments and your speaker points.Being civil to your partner, the other team, and myself is also highly correlated with your speaker points.Clarity is more important to me than speed. If you see me stop typing on my computer, either you're going for an argument that I don't feel is worth my time considering, or your speech is so incomprehensible that there's no use in trying to take notes.Tag team cross x is okay as long as it's not excessive. I will generally deduct speaker points if it's over the top.

Brief Profile: I debated policy at Elk Grove High School from 1995 to 1999. I am now the assistant debate coach at Niles West High School in Skokie, Illinois. I teach math and computer science.
  