
  Affiliation = Canton Central Catholic & Perry High Schools, Ohio

I debated for three years in high school (2004-2007), for Perry/Canton Central Catholic and one year in college for Case Western.
I judge about twice a month on the high school topic, so I am pretty knowledgeable, and have been judging since 2007. I am now an Assistant Coach for Perry and Central.

Short version:
Impact your arguments, explain the links, just be smart. Seriously, intelligence is good. And be nice. Other than that- do whatever.

Long version:
I will vote on almost any argument as long as it is well explained and I am told what my role as the judge is. I value clash and in-depth analysis, as well as a clean line-by-line. Make sure you speak slightly slower on analytics and T, if you want me to flow them.

T/FW - If you plan on going for topicality I like to hear specific analysis on the voters and how the affirmative interacts with your definition as well as examples of topical affirmatives. I am likely to defer to competing interpretations, but every aff should have reasonability in the 2AC. Only kritik T if you know what you're doing. In terms of FW I think inclusion is important.

DA/CP - Once again, line by line and concise, logical stories are a good thing. I love a good PIC debate

Kritiks - I ran kritiks all the time and love hearing them. That being said, however, if you don't understand the theories and philosophies behind your kritik I am less likely to vote on them. Cookie cutter Ks can get boring so I need a clear story of the alternative and the role of the ballot. Case-specific links and/or analysis is also important.

Theory - I am not likely to vote aff on theory unless there is a blatant abuse by the negative. If you are going to go for theory I need a clear story and clean line x line.

If you have any more questions, just ask. I like when debaters have a good sense of humor. Don't be rude to me or the other team or you'll lose speaker points.
I hate roadmaps that end with "...and x argument if I get to it". If you're getting to it, get to it. If not, drop it. It's obviously not important to you anyway.
  