
  Experience: I debated at Edina High School in Minnesota for four years. I now compete for the University of North Texas.


Arguments: I am more familiar with policy arguments but I do not necessarily prefer them. To win a flow, tell me why your impacts should come before theirs - this applies to critical and policy strats, as well as procedurals. All arguments should be explained in the context of your opponent’s position (read: CLASH). I dislike generic debates and I enjoy watching a good discussion of the topic (topicality is one of my favorite arguments as a debater). I think debate is a game, and any theoretical questions should center on who makes the game better, more accessible, more fair, etc.
Cross Examination: This could be your time to shine. Ask about the statuses ect. and then ask some great questions. I think a lot of debate evidence is poorly warranted and often times the cards do not assume each other. Some impact scenarios are ridiculous. You would do well to point this out.
Counterplans: I enjoy a good plan v. counterplan debate. Neg should have a competitive plan text and specific solvency evidence. Aff should outline solvency deficits to the counterplan and theoretical arguments.
Disads: Uniqueness, link, internal link, impact – explain all of these! If you’re neg, tell me about your specific evidence. If you’re aff, tell me why their ev is bad or is not applicable to your aff. I’ve been known to vote on defense.
Critical Arguments: If you explain your advocacy well and in a way that makes sense I’ll vote for you. I don’t like voting on any type of vague arguments and that applies to critical teams as well. I’ll vote for a K aff if the above conditions are satisfied. I don’t think that teams should always have to defend a policy option but if you’re persuasive I will vote for framework.


In-Round Conduct: Please be courteous to everyone in the round, including your partner. Humor is appreciated and may be rewarded with higher points. Clarity is always preferred over speed. Flashing does not count as prep, although I reserve the right to change this if need be.
  