
  Corey Fisher:

The dumb, reputation/my quals, stuff-

Debating for UMKC (Ceda doubl elim, NDT qual, broke at every "big" tournament)

Debated at Lincoln College Prep in High School

Did more traditional stuff in high school. "Alternative style" debate in college.


The stuff you may wanna know...or nah

No definition for debate. It is always a game, but everyone plays with their own flair...their own style. There is no such thing as Tabula Rasa, that is a lie to make debaters feel safe. I have biases based on my past and present debate experience. No getting around that...But that's why persuasion is so important, right??? That is the point of this game...Persuade me to vote on what was presented in the round, and I'll vote for you, regardless of my personal inclinations (Unless what you're saying is mad violent, and offensive to me...you should know what that would typically mean. If not, you deserve the L.)


Debate arg relevant stuff you care about...or nah

 T-you won't win me with your regurgitation of "definitions" and blocks...what is fairness? why are specific forms of edu so important? Can your blocks answer all of that for me, while adaptin' to the aff nuances? Find out on the next episode of Debate Round Z!!!

FW- Same-zy...What does it mean to be a "policy-maker"? Why is that default framing good, in the context of bodies who don't all aspire to achieve that status/role???

DA- whatevs...be smart...(FYI- I just don't dig politics :/...but you can still win it in front of me)

CP- Whatevs...be smart

K-if your alt is "reject" blababah, and thats it...you probably don't want me as your judge. If your alt text/advocacy is true to your alt author, and you win your links (almost always will) and how your alt solves (not just the K proper, but the aff impacts, or how you access them, prior question blablah...) you'll like me more...

Alt debate- Just like any other arg to me. I dig em, so persuade me...or nah. Case: Please please please...I want you to troll the aff at every point possible. You don't need tons of "case" cards. Read their ev, and make links, args, whatever... kick some history, and clown em. other than the K, this is my fav part of the debate. YO, CASE SHOULD BE A TROLLFEST!! BE PETTY
Other Stuff...or nah!


I award swank in speeches with points.

I award respectable trolling in CX with points.

I value pettiness, in relation to args.

Prep is not flashing. Prep is typing excessively while flashing.

I flow affs and one off strats holistically. If you do not want this, you must inform me that you want me to flow something on a separate sheet.

I don't mind spreading. I do mind listening to Jarvis, Optimus, Terminators, and all other machine type entities spreading to me.

Clarity is a must if you want me to flow. 

Swanktivity in general is a must. better ask somebody what it is, if you don't know

Pettiness is a lifestyle...better live it in round, or you're already behind...
  