
  

Dan Fitzmier - Judge Philosophy for NDT 2004 
Northwestern University 
Judging Experience: 5 years 
Rounds on Topic: 50-60 
I’ve found that over the past several years I’ve changed the way that I judge. I’ve been 
told by others that this is the case as well. I used to make my decisions almost entirely 
based on a combination of a taking a ‘relative risk’ oriented approach to argument 
evaluation and an ‘exclusively flow oriented approach to truthfulness.’ This is not to say 
that I have now excluded such considerations from my approach to judgment. In fact, I 
find myself making many decision along such lines. However, I have been disabused of 
the notion that there is ‘always some risk’ of an argument. I have assigned zero risk to 
disadvantages and case arguments on a number of occasions in which the debating and 
evidence pointed towards such a conclusion. I have also been pushed away from what I 
just called the ‘exclusively flow oriented approach to truthfulness.’ This does NOT mean 
that I will ignore dropped arguments. I usually give an un-refuted argument more weight 
than a refuted argument. But I used to almost exclusively regard a ‘dropped’ argument as 
a trump, so to speak, with which to evaluate all other arguments. I now find myself more 
willing to compare a ‘dropped’ argument to the core claims which refute it. Let me 
highlight here that I said ‘the core claims which refute it.’ What I mean by this is that I 
no longer think that an argument has to have its responding argument ‘next to it’ in order 
to count as ‘refuted.’ I now think that refutation has more to do with conceptual clash 
and my own judgment of persuasiveness than with my flow. This could be because my 
flow has deteriorated in my dotage. It also could be due to a widespread collapse of 
technical proficiency. Maybe I’ve just started to get over my ego involvement and can 
now admit that my flow does not represent a perfect transcript of the debate (although let 
me assure you that I really am very clever). Anywho, let me go back to something that I 
said at the outset which is that I still often do find myself making decisions which turn on 
a ‘dropped’ argument or a ‘relative risk’ oriented approach. When I do this, its almost 
always because one side in the debate has made a strong case that I ought to do so. This 
provides a nice point of transition into the last important thing that I wanted to say. I 
often find myself making my decision by virtue of the way that ‘the framework for 
evaluation’ has been debated or perhaps has not been debated. I encourage you to spend 
a great deal of time thinking about the way that you want to position my perspective on 
how the debate ought to be evaluated. There are simply too many different approaches 
that have cropped up in the past few years for me (and I suspect many of us judges) to 
pledge my allegiance, as it were, to any one or number of them. I try to take my 
evaluative bearings from the way that the debate transpired. A parallel point is that I find 
it to be frustrating when you forgo the opportunity to engage in such a debate. In such a 
situation I will usually try to feel out a sense for the way that your arguments operate, 
which is to say: how they lend themselves toward evaluation. If any of the preceding 
makes you think that I have altogether lost my marbles, that THEY have finally gotten to 
me, or that something really quite strange is afoot in Evanston, I encourage you to give 
me the old strikerooo; of course, drunken rage, angry sobbing, and barely-concealed 
disdain are all available alternatives, but I must say that I would much prefer the more 
dignified anonymity of your strike. In all seriousness, please enjoy your NDT 2004!!
  