
  Debated 3 years at St. Vincent’s in Petaluma, CA. Now attending Gonzaga University. 

Bottom Line: This debate is about you, not me. I think the most interesting rounds occur when debaters run the arguments they like & are good at, so please just do that. And be nice to everyone in the round (including your partner).

I haven’t judged any debates on this topic and am unfamiliar with most of the arguments. Assume that I am unfamiliar with yours. Just explain your acronyms and be clear.

No matter what argument you are running, clash is extremely important and makes it way easier for me to judge. If you want to win, you need to make this happen.

You can be speedy as long as you are CLEAR. If I can’t understand you I will tell you and if after that I still can’t understand you then it really sucks, because that means I can’t write down what you’re saying.

My favorite argument is definitely the K. If that’s your thing, then I’m probably a good judge for you. That being said, I have high standards for this argument. I expect you to be able to explain it VERY well. I also might not be familiar with your K, so please just be very clear about your argument: what is the specific link to this aff? why does it matter in this round? what is the alt? what is the role of the ballot? etc. That should probably happen anyway though, right? 

I think nontraditional rounds are interesting, but I will expect great things from a performance team. If this is your deal, then I’ll give you a fair chance in round. 

If cps, das, args about the economy and the like are your thing, then that’s cool too. Just do what you want. I might yawn, but in front of me you won’t ever have a worse chance of winning because of the argument you read. 

If you want me to vote on theory, then prove that you have been abused. Reading a coach written block about pics from 2006 is probably not going to persuade me to vote for you. 

I’m not really sure what to say about T. Sometimes it’s a great strategy. If you plan on going for T, then you should know what to do. 

If you want really high speaker points then be intelligent, persuasive, FUNNY and dynamic. I will definitely be charmed if you manage all of the above.

I will vote for whichever team I think wins the round. If you win that heg is good and solves life’s problems, then I will vote for you even if I think that you are a fascist (sort of kidding, don’t worry). BUT if someone runs an argument that actually is fascist, racist, sexist, etc. then you should whip out some awesome literature that tells me why that’s awful and will probably have a great chance at winning. 
  