
  Starting with 17-18 season Updates will be on tabroom
 Joseph Flores
Los Angeles Metropolitan Debate League Debater: 2008-2011
Berkeley Undergrad/Bay Area Urban Debate League Policy Coach: 2011- 2015
Los Angeles Metropolitan Debate League Program Manager: 2015 - Present

Rounds on topic: plenty

The TL;DR:
There is no argument that I won't listen to-do what you do best. I feel debate is a sphere for all of types of arguments. Everything is debatable, so be ready to debate everything.

If it's an email chain, include me: joseph.flores@urbandebate.org


Articulate your argument in the context of your opponents. This helps facilitate clash on my flow. Always try to explain how not only your argument functions, but how it interacts with your opponents.


FW:
Framework is a lens to tell me how I value and evaluate arguments, methods, and styles. The best framework debates are comparative on the standards level- Who creates the best form of debate? You should characterize the world of the debate under your framework and under theirs.

Procedurals:
The standards are most important here, it's a question of models of debate and what is and is not justified. Whether I prefer abuse or potential abuse depends on the articulation in the round. Simply reading your blocks isn't going to cut it for me; develop it. I rarely pull the trigger here, but if you spend a significant amount of time here it should be fine.

Ks:
Although I am familiar with most of the authors you will be reading on the topic, do not assume I understand what your author is talking about or rather your spin on your author's argument. I like to see contextualization to the round/1AC. It's probably the affs job to defend the 1AC in it's entirety, reps and all. I'm open to vote for anything if you win what lens I view the round through. Your generic links won't always work, please realize this. I probably wont vote for "you never get the K" framework arguments.


K Affs:
I've judged these on the topic and have coached students with these kinds of non-traditional styles. I have no problem following these debates. K's are not new, so try to engage in it. Whatever the advocacy, there is always a way to debate against it. That being said, if you are more comfortable making these debates a FW debate, that is fine, just make sure you engage with your opponents FW comparatively.

CPs:
Counterplans should be competitive. PICs are ok as long as you can prove the net-benefit to be significant enough for there to be a difference between the CP and the case.

DAs:
The more specific to the case the better. The more generic, the more boring it is, for you and me. This doesn't mean don't use your generics, it just means I'm more impressed by specific DAs. 

CrossX:
I will listen to CX, but I am not going to be flowing CX, so it won't have that great of an impact on my decision unless it's in your speeches. That said, I'll take note on a couple things, especially clarifying questions, so you may want to limit these types of open ended questions unless you really need them because you are practically giving your opponent more speech time.

Paperless:
For folks with experience doing paperless, this has not been a big issue, so I'm more lenient with you all- do what you normally do.

The following applies more to teams that are more clumsy about it. Jumping speeches should be quick. If this becomes an issue in the round, your prep runs until the flash drive is unplugged from your computer. I reserve the right to take away speaker points if being paperless gets in the way of debate (ie don't jump major parts of your speech, give the other team way more evidence than you read, flashing over more than one file that you're reading off of, general lack of organization etc.). Being paperless debate is not an excuse not to flow, so if you answer arguments that weren't made, or miss arguments because you were only looking at the speech doc, that's your own fault and may end up with bad consequences for you.

Another important note, NOT EVERYONE OWNS A LAPTOP. For the rounds where your opponent does not have their own laptop, you must provide a viewing computer during your speech. This means that you either (A) always have a viewing computer (B) your partner gives up their computer during your speech. When your opponent doesn't have access to your evidence, that limits clash and hurts the debate as a whole.

Other Stuff:
If you ask "Do you have any preferences," I will just ask you "Do you have any specific questions regarding preferences?" Just start with the specific question.
-Arguments based on anything that happens outside the debate are nearly impossible for me to evalulate (ie- we will take this argument to elims, they said other things in other debates etc) so don't use them unless you feel it is a very important point to bring up for the debate.
-You will earn a small boost in your speaks if you successfully use the word cromulent. I will only award this to you once per round.
-Have fun. You dedicate a lot of time to this activity, so you might as well enjoy it. So do what ever is your thing. The more comfortable you are, the better you'll perform- do what you do best.

**If there's anything I didn't address here, just ask before the round.
  