
  School Affiliation: Cathedral High School
Debated at: Cathedral High School
Policy 2003-2004; LD 2004-2006
Rice University
Parli 2005-Present
Rds. judged this year: 20+ on the Sept./Oct. 2008 LD topic
Years judging: 4
Approach:
I try to bring myself into the debate as little as possible. For instance, I think micropx or "in-round acts of resistance" as reasons for the ballot are hilarious at best, but I've voted on enough of those in my short time and have even run a position or two with taken elements from that approach to comfortably state that I don't feel I have any significant hedge for or against any particular positions or style. That said, I'm all about clarity and impact weighing. This means you can't just extend your #4 turn in the NR or AR and expect me to put the dots together for you. That's just begging for intervention. Tell me where the argument is, how it functions, and give me articulated reasons why it's more important than other arguments you're trying to beat with it. Like with theory, don't just rant to me how everything is the internal link to fairness and you should win for that. Tell me WHY it's the internal link to fairnes, give me your interp of what fairness is, and tell me why you win even without impacting back to the standards. Delivery-wise, I can handle anything outside of the upper echelons of policy speed, but please don't go fast for the sake of going fast. Spreading out 6 half warrants or multiple claims or reading massive Zizek or Butler just to sound PoMo won't don't anything but hurt my hand, and while that won't affect the decision outright, it will definitely affect speaker points, and I may have this face (>=I) for the remainder of the round. This is especially true of esoteric "from-left-field" positions that require even more thoroughness and initial explanation. Then again, if you do your job in the rebuttals and clearly and concisely re-articulate the importance of the arguments you're going for, then it should all work out in the end anyway. If you have any specific questions, just feel free to ask before round.
  