
  Lynne Floto
Conflicts: Rancho Bernardo High School
Last Updated: February 12, 2014

Judge Type: Extremely Traditional
I value reasoning more than an ability to read evidence. I'm more inclined to vote fore debaters with shorter pieces of evidence and more analysis. If there is evidence that is particularly important, you can ask me to call for it. 

What this means:
DO NOT spread. I believe it is unfair and it compromises quality of debate. If you speak too quickly, I will stop flowing. Also, it's in your best interest to use moderate speed because if I can't flow an argument, I won't vote for it. While speaking, please enunciate clearly and be sure to signpost and label all arguments clearly and in order that is on flow. Poor speaking will have a negative effect on your speaks.
I am more comfortable with the traditional model of LD debate, and while I will listen to any argument, I am less likely to vote for complex "modern" arguments, and I will not vote for arguments I don't understand, so explain everything. 

I default to substance over framework. I will listen to framework and philosophy, but you need to slow down and explain it clearly or I will not vote off of it.
I also value strategic, intelligent cross-exes. Cross-ex is binding. I really believe that a good or bad cross-ex can win or lose a round. Please don't just treat cross-ex as time for clarification - use it to your advantage! Try to pin your opponent into a corner! Higher speaks will be rewarded to debaters who effectively use cross-ex.

Extensions: You must extend every argument you want to use later in the round as a voter. Don't just blip and expect me to vote off an argument though. You must provide sufficient reason if you want me to do anything. I will weigh dropped arguments against you.

Framework: Show me why I should prefer your framework and why you link into it better than your opponent does. Show how you achieve your value/Vc better than your opponent.

Above all, have fun, enjoy the mental exercise, and make memories for the rest of your life!
  