
  BACKGROUND- I debated at duPont Manual H.S. (Louisville, KY) (1987-91) and Augustana College (1991-94). I have been an asst coach at several Chicago high schools: Whitney Young, Lane Tech, Juarez, and Hope. I have been coaching and judging in the Chicago Debate League since 1999. Every school I have coached
has won a Chicago Debate League championship.
 I am open to any type of argument and style as long as you make compelling justifications for why I should vote for your team. I WILL NOT do the work for you. Make sure that you are extending your impacts at the end of the round and providing some type of comparative impact calculus that frames my ballot.
I appreciate creativity over predictability . I get tired of weighing Nuclear War and a Politics DA.

Overviews are appreciated . Let me know what is most important in the round.

Any pre-round disclosures or discussions are irrelevant to the round, IMHO.

TAG TEAM CROSS-EX  I discourage this in JV. JV debaters should learn to ask and answer questions on their own . On Varsity, I allow it BUT if it's done too much, I deduct speaker points.

ROADMAPS- Give good ones- Tell me the order of the arguments of your speech. Roadmaps are used to help people put their flows in order. Don't just say something like, "I'm just gonna do a general overview of everything." That's not a roadmap. Give the order: "Topicality, DA, then Solvency...".
TIMEKEEPING You are welcome to time your own speeches, but I also like to keep time , just in case. Remember, my timer is the one that counts.
TOPICALITY is a voting issue. it is not a time skew in my mind.
SPEED is fine if I can understand you. I will let you know if I don't. Be sure the tag lines to your cards are clear, and feel free to spew as much as you want during the text of the cards. Do NOT SKIP ("CARD CLIPPING") the important parts of text while you read it. If you stop reading a card before getting to the tag implications, I won't count it in the round. [Example: If the tag line says "Nukes lead to extinction" and you only read the first sentence of the text: "Certain scientists discussed nuclear power today." . That is not completely read.]
KRITIKS are fine with me. Explain it as though I am hearing it for the first time. Don't skip certain parts of it because it may be a popular K. Feel free to go crazy, as long as the LINK is explained. I have seen too many rounds where a K is shoved into a debater's hands right before a round, and the debater knows nothing about the K. Evidence isn't the only thing you need to win the round. You need to be able to explain the arguments and implications.
PAPERLESS is fine. I do not count prep time for flashing your speech to the other team. I have been known to use prep time if I see partners discussing strategies while flashing. I can become impatient and start prep time if someone's computer glitches take too long.
DISADS- Please remember to extend all 3 parts of a DA throughout the Neg block and 2NR. I'm not kidding.
COUNTERPLANS - If you go for the CP in the 2NR you must win it to win the round. This means extending all parts of it and explaining the Net Benefit.
END OF ROUND- I don't talk a lot at the end of the round. I write everything on the ballot. I also don't like to read cards at the end of the round. Don't ask me to unless you believe they are being misinterpreted. I have a problem with Huffington Post cites. I may need to see the quals of the author. I also will not argue with anyone about my decision.
  