
  Ava Fox- Debated in high school at Gulliver prep and now a junior debating at the University of Miami
I will try not to intervene and will stick to my flow as much as possible. It is not necessary to over adapt.

Some thoughts-

Debate is a game.
My default is that the affirmative should read and defend a topical plan that is an example of the current resolution. I am not opposed to listening to affirmatives that are not what I previously mentioned, but there should be some explanation for why what you are doing is justified.
Topicality is a voting issue. I lean towards competing interpretations but can be convinced otherwise.
I don’t have any particular leaning on CP theory.
Disads- I think uniqueness determines the risk of the link
Critiques- If I do not understand the argument at the end of the debate, it is likely you will lose. Alternatives are usually not competitive and have major solvency deficits. This means that the negative should spend time answering these arguments. The affirmative should spend time making and explaining these arguments.
Smart and logical arguments go a long way.


Rude behavior is neither appropriate nor necessary. Actually, it is probably a good way to get lower speaker points.




Paperless- jumping your speech to the other team shouldn't come out of prep. Don't steal prep. I'll try to be sympathetic with tech problems, but at the end of the day that's the risk you take going paperless. If your computer melts down during a speech, you can take prep to fix it or switch to your partner's computer, but we aren't taking 20 minutes to go to another room and get an extra computer. Tech issues come out of your prep. 
. You have to jump every card you are going to read to the other team. You don't have to jump non-carded arguments to the other team. It's the other teams responsibility flow and keep track of what you have and haven't read. I have 0 sympathy for dropping a non-carded argument because it wasn't jumped to you. I have 0 sympathy for not knowing the order things were read in. I have 0 sympathy related to issues that arise from you failing to flow.
  