
  I debated three years of policy in high school and one of public forum, with some national circuit experience my Jr. and Sr. years, I've also had some college experience. 

Affirmatives:
I tend to believe that affirmatives should at least be pseudo- topical. If you can win why you are topical then it doesn't really matter if you legitimately are or not. While I have little knowledge with running projects I think the affirmative must win why that comes before the topic.

Topicality:
I think rounds can be won on T, however it must be done correctly. I think that if you are going for T in the 2NR there must be substantial work to win by ballot. Even though you can run it with a topical affirmative, reasonability is always a way for the affirmative to get out. I do not like RVIs on T, if you like to run them just prove why it is so. However, this may be slightly an uphill battle.

Negative strategy:
I am okay with pretty much any negative strategy. However, if you are going for a kritikal strategy you MUST explain the argument without the jargon associated with it. With proper analysis I can evaluate it, if it doesn't make sense to me I am probably going to be giving more weight to the affirmative. I am absolutely okay with politics disadvantages; I think they are just as legitimate as any other disadvantage. I do I also think that while being negative less is more, well explained strategies hold more weight in my decision than lots of arguments with little explanation.

Theory:
This definitely is not my favorite debate, but I understand when it is needed. If you are running theory make sure you aren't flying through it at rapid speeds. Prove to me why this justifies my ballot.

Extra information:
As a judge I want to decrease the amount of intervention in the round. I do not want to have to do a lot of work for either team; this is done by debaters doing comparative analysis throughout the round and having comparable impact calculus.
My biggest pet peeve is seeing partners be blatantly rude to each other. Rudeness between partners will have a direct drop in speaker points; it also shows a lack of confidence in the round.
Regarding paperless debating just make sure that you are being efficient, I will not take prep because of jumping speeches.Also, be courteous when jumping speeches don't put like 20 more pages of cards in your document then you are obviously going to read.

Questions? Just ask before the round.
  