
  I debated LD for four years at Schaumburg High School and have coached for Whitefish Bay High School for the past three.

Theory: Check abuse if it's present. I really disagree with frivolous theory, but I won't penalize you in round for my personal preferences. That said, if you expect your abusive shells to be a major voter for me then you're going to be disappointed. If you have a theory strat planned out, strike me. If you DO run theory, tell me why it matters. Clearly weighted/impacted theory is the only theory I feel comfortable deciding a ballot on. That said, I probably don't want to decide rounds on theory so keep that in mind. 

K: I really like kritikal arguments. If you're going to run them though, please do good weighing with your role of the ballot and have a solid link. I don't think the reading of the K should be sufficient to win the round, so plan on telling me specifically how you are linking in that round and how the K is interacting. Also K v. K debate is often atrocious so if you are a neg K debater and you hear a kritikal aff, I'm sorry but you have to change your strat. I won't intervene in these rounds, but expect lower speaks in K v K rounds. 

Policy args: Run something interesting, I don't feel strongly either way.

Presumption: Will not vote off presumption triggeres or skep triggers.

Philosophy: Be creative, run something interesting, don't bastardize the philosophers I love. If you're going to run a framework, please do something with it in the round. Dropped/poorly impacted frameworks make rounds unnecessarily muddled. Please keep in mind that I do need SOME way to vote other than flipping a coin, ideally a framework/standard will tell me how to do that.

Traditional Debate:
Do your thing.

Speaks: I reward good strat, good args, and hilarity. I drop speaks if you do crappy things like argue with my RFD, be noisy/obnoxious/rude during your opponents speeches, say offensive things.

General stuff:
-I get that the 1AR is too short so I will be pretty lenient with 1AR extensions. Meaning, if you say "extend X" that will be enough for me, you don't need to do a lot of analysis/weighing with the extension. Just tell me what to do with that extension in the 2AR.
-Don't try to shake my hand. I don't know your life.
-If you run some really morally unacceptable argument (oppression good) or fail to give proper respect to arguments dealing with sensitive issues, I will intervene.
  