
  Reid Funston

Pace Academy '16

Dartmouth '20
Harvard 2018 addendum -
If you're using a flash drive, prep ends when it leaves the computer.
I've also decided I believe in the TKO - if you believe that the other team has made such a catastrophic mistake that they could not possibly win, you can call a technical knockout, and I'll evaluate it. If you were right, you win and I add half a point to your speaks, if you were wrong you lose.

I'm currently a sophomore debating at Dartmouth. I used to go almost exclusively for policy arguments but most of my 2NRs this season in college have been the Cap K or T. I don't have hardcore preferences about what you read.

Specific argumentative Stuff:


Case debating: Big fan. Impact turns are cool, If they're creative and executed well it's even better. I'm super into the block where the 2NC is all offense on one advantage and the 1NR is defense to the other.


Counterplans: The neg is in a good place on theory if they have evidence in the context of specific to the aff or topic/solid distinctions from the aff. I like creative cheating counterplans.


Theory: I really enjoy good counterplan theory debates. I lean neg on condo.


Topicality: I default to competing interpretations but reasonability is winnable. 


Topicality again: To be transparent, I go for T-USFG a lot. I'm much more persuaded by an argument about limits or setting the most debatable model of topic than why OMG THEY DON'T USE THE GOVERNMENT MEANS NO DECISIONMAKING WHICH MEANS I CAN'T BUY A CAR. I don't care about your car. I don't think I'm bad for the aff on T - you just need to win offense and probably some kind of counter-interpretation. All of this said, I think debates are much more interesting when the neg has a specific strategy.


The K: I like it if it's explained well, I strongly dislike it if it's hyper-generic and not explained well. I get impressed by good specific link debating.


Final Miscellaneous Stuff:

-I'll reward bold moves by either side if they turn out well. Even if they don't, I may still think it was a cool idea and boost your speaks.
  