
  Harvard '20, Wilson '16
furtado [at] college.harvard.edu
I debated four years on the NatCir, first 3 in policy, last in LD. I bid in policy and qualified to the TOC in LD at Harvard semis. I was a lone wolf without a coach for the last 2 years. The following paradigm is for LD, but can be applied to policy.

Notes for Harvard:
If all you're reading is analytics, you don't need to flash and I will take prep from the other team if they want you to and you agree.Yes I would love to be on your email chain but it doesn't really matter to me nor exempt you from being clear while spreadingDon't say 'cut that card there' if you're just reading analytics. You can just stop reading them.
Cheat Sheet
LARP: 1 - 2
K: 1 - 2
Fwk: 3 - 5 (or higher if the pool is bad)
Theory: 4 - S

General
[Insert cliché about how debate is your activity not mine]. My paradigm is a description of how I default, most of it can be easily changed by arguments in round. I vote based on the flow.
For the love of all that is holy, slow down on author cites. LDers also go too fast on analytics often.I default comparing worlds.I default offense/defense. I don't think terminal defense is a thing.I believe in the post/pre-fiat distinction.I don't vote on rep. I don't care if you are the top debater in the country: if you lose the round, you lost. Even if I wanted to vote on rep, I'm so bad with names I probably wouldn't be able to remember who is who. That said, I vote for top debaters more, because they are generally better.I have a low threshold for extensions, particularly in LARP debates.Tech > Truth. I am not interventionist.
LARP/Policy
I was a policy debater for 3 years, I think I can handle whatever LD has to throw at me. CPs are cool, DAs are cool, etc. That said, advantages/DAs in LD seem to be constructed out of some of the worst cards in existence. CPs are underexplored.
Low threshold on answering theoretical objections to politics DA.Link can control the direction of UQ, UQ can't control the direction of the link.
K
Go ahead, my entire career was predicated on these arguments.
It's nice to be at least tangentially related to the topic however, makes for a more interesting debate. A ROTJ is cool but not essential, especially against a util aff. It is strategic to spend a lot of time explaining how the K interacts with the framework. Most Ks rely on a somewhat assumed utilitarian framework and you need to justify either why util is true or framework debates are bad. 
Framework
There is a lot of framework debate in the north-east so I think have some familiarity with this. I understand different moral frameworks and some meta-ethical justifications for them. However, I mostly read util during my career.
Skep is fine, try not to read it against Ks or soft-left impacts though. You need to explain to me why skep isn't just defense.
CPs are under-explored in fwk debates.

Theory
I think that LD needs theory de-escalation. Theory should never be your A-strat and the idea of "theory debaters" is somewhat mind boggling to me. With that in mind, here are my thoughts:
I default c/iI default "drop the arg" on theory, "drop the debater" on TI am open to RVIs, but don't read new 2AR RVIs.If it happened out of round, I do not care. I won't look at screenshots. (Exception: Academic integrity arguments about miscutting an article)I think that remedies are under-explored in these debates. Instead of "drop the debater," why not "take away her/his ability to perm"? I am much more likely to give you your remedy than to drop the debater.I am not the judge you want to be reading brackets theory in front of.

Speaks/Misc
I use speaks to enforce norms. Unfortuntely due to broader LD norms, I have to be a teensy bit of a point fairy, so 29 means I think you should clear.
Wiki/disclosure is one such norm that I think should become a regular practice in LD (unless you're breaking ofc), although I have sympathy for small schools. To be more explicit, this means that sketchy disclosure things are reflected in your speaks.
Racism/sexism/ableism/etc. are all things that I do not think should be norms in LD (or at all).
Don't be a jerk.
Y'all need to not extend plan texts.
  