
  My name is Omar Gaidarov. I debated for Torrey Pines High School/Del Mar Independent mostly my freshman through junior years and am currently a freshman at Northwestern University (Class of 2020).

I got one bid my junior year at VBT, and competed in the elimination rounds of most circuit tournaments I attended as an upperclassman, including multiple bid rounds. I only went to CPS last year, so I’ve been outside of the debate world for a while.

Here are some of the things you should know about me before you pref me:

My favorite debate by far throughout high school was the theory debate. I love it yo. I’m probably not too familiar with all these new developments you kids been coming up with, but I’m sure I’ll be able to follow along. I won’t judge you if it’s frivolous theory – I definitely abused that a bunch – but if you’re not clear with how I’m supposed to evaluate the shell, I’m going to dock your speaks for sure. I assume competing interps and no RVI. These are just assumptions – you can argue for another rule. Just make sure if you’re reading reasonability, you tell me what that means in terms of the ballot – but don’t be unreasonable with what you say is reasonable haha. I’m not a fan of offensive counter interps but I’ll evaluate them.

I read the K more towards the end of my high school career and I can evaluate it, but you’ll have to make the story clear to me. That also means you don’t blaze through some crazy post-modernist philosophy and expect me to understand it. When I was in high school, I tended not to engage the K on the line by line, so the big picture and how the K relates to other arguments will definitely matter to me.

Framework debate is pretty simple. I read a variety of frameworks in high school and I’ll be able to understand the one you read. Make sure in your extensions and rebuttals to clarify the warrants in your arguments.

WEIGH. There is no way I am going to be able to judge the debate without it. If you’re not doing this, you’re telling me to go with my gut, and my gut is telling me to give you some low speaker points. Tell me how the arguments interact on the flow, and how it impacts the round.

I’m totally chill with tricky args and the game aspect of the debate was definitely one of my favorite parts. However, this doesn’t mean you should read a paragraph of tricks. If I’m not able to flow it, I’ll give the other debater leeway in their responses. Tell me what presumption means if you’re running it.

Speed: I won’t be able to flow top speed because it’s been a while. Start slow and then speed up. Also, slow down for tags at the very least. I’ll be at 80% of what I once was.

Speaks: I’ll start with a 28.5. You can definitely go up from there if you’re strategic in your decisions, give me solid overviews, generally are a good person in round, crack a few jokes, make me feel special. On the other hand, if you don’t do these things, or your speech is unintelligible, I’ve got bad news for you. 

Most of all, debate is an activity you do because you enjoy it. Looking back, I can definitely say I miss getting in round and battling it out toe to toe with whoever’s on the other side.

Have fun!

My email is: omar.gaidarov@gmail.com if you have any questions.
  