
   
 Speech and Debate Judge

 I enjoy analyzing the quality of research, persuasive techniques and presentation style of all debate categories including: Congress, CX Policy, Lincoln Douglas, Public Forum as well as all team and individual speech and drama categories of competition like: Original Oratory, Extemporaneous Speech, Duet, Duo, Humorous and Dramatic Interpretation, Prose, Poetry. In the categories which require acting skills, I really look for a connection between the student and the selection, when the student embodies the selection and becomes the character . You can count on my ballots to include feedback to improve their skills and encourage them, as well as a list tools that will empower them.
Overall, in debate, I would say I am a stock issues judge and filter through a real-world impact calculus grid. I want to know that the student is equipped to understand issues and the real world impact. These are our future leaders and I believe they are capable.

I competed in high school and college and won awards in acting, singing, and public speaking events. I worked, for a short time, as an actress and trained at the Film Actors Lab. I am a trained toast masters judge.

I am the former manager of the communication and graduate programs for the Dallas branch of Landmark Worldwide a global personal and professional development enterprise. I have a background in youth and family ministry having worked with local. national and international ministries. I am currently a life coach specializing in life transitions and lecture on art as therapy and the latest developments in alternative therapies for cognitive stimulation and life enhancement.

I am an enthusiastic supporter of academic sports. Speech and debate participation provides cognitive and behavioural enhancement. It improves reading, listening, speaking, critical thinking and writing skills. It also improves motivation and increases curiosity and engagement. I enjoy empowering the future leaders of our community and world. I encourage the students to take the skills they are learning and to apply them to areas of life that are of concern to them now, so they can make a difference and learn the practical value of their skills. It increases engagement for both at-risk and gifted students.
  