
  Updated 12/2010

Background: 
I am a parent judge – I have been judging since 2005 – I have judged a good deal of rounds as I am very active with our team (Pine View School – Sarasota, Fl). Our team is “student coached” so it has been a learning process. I am a sales and marketing executive so you will have to “sell” me on the argument. 

 I like a clear argument, I vote for what I'm told. I like a debater who has a strong grasp on a consistent position. Your case should have evidence to back up your arguments but not fully driven by it. Evidence will not only help convince me but also help strengthen your case against your opponent cases. I like substantive debate, if your argument or position is confusing, vague, circular or empty I am not likely to vote on it. Clarity is a virtue so are simplicity and elegance. Tell me at the end of the last speech what the voters are and why. 

Speaker Points
 Speaker points should be used to gauge the quality of one's speaking ability; it is a part of what debate is about. This means clarity and fluidity are everything. I am not big on 30s as that is perfection however do your job clearly and concisely and you could be among the few. 

Speed
 Speed is not a problem within reason (remember parent judge) and you have to be clear. Saying more is not likely to earn you the win by itself. If you are unclear you will loose me, I will put my pen down and stop listening. Remember you are selling me your case. 

Cards and Citations
 Honesty is everything. Know your case, where the cards/citations came from and be able to provide them to your opponent in a timely fashion. 

Speech Time
 When the timer goes off, it is acceptable finishing your sentence; that’s it. 

Misc.
 I enjoy doing this, it is fun and you should have fun too. I know it is a lot of work but there is no reason for “being rude” or “having an attitude. Be professional, look good, neat and well groomed. You don’t have to buy a suit but your clothes should fit and be professional so should your appearance. Above all enjoy the time competing, hanging with your friends, meeting other people and having fun. I know I do – just ask Super Judge. 
  