
  Robert Garcia, LD Judging Philosophy
 
I am a HS LD Judge and as such am using the NFL's Judging Philosophy Card. As for my background, I did LD and IEs in HS (La Joya, TX) and then competed in college at UT-Austin. I also coached 3 summer institutes (twice at UTNIF and once at USD's Debate and IE Forum in San Diego). Again, this is an LD judge card, not Policy/CX - my exposure to Policy is very limited - I have judged it a few times and still consider myself a "lay" judge in policy.

LD Philosophy: Non-interventionist. In addition to this judge card's format, I included (additional philosophy) below where I thought it was worth mentioning or explaining my answer.

1. Your experience with LD debate (check all that apply):
A. Current LD coach
B. Former LD coach
X C. Former LD competitor
X D. Summer LD instructor
X E. Experienced LD judge
F. Former Policy debater
G. Collegiate policy debater
H. Current Public Forum coach or judge
I. Speech Coach
J. Community Judge
K. No LD experience
X L. I have judged LD debate for years.

2. Please indicate your attitudes towards typical LD practices: (circle one)
A. What is your preferred rate of delivery?
Slow, conversational style---Typical conversational speed---Rapid conversational speed
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Does the rate of delivery weigh heavily in your decision? Yes No
Will you vote against a student solely for exceeding your preferred speed? Yes No

B. How important is the criterion in making your decision?
1. It is the primary means by which I make my decision.
2. It is a major factor in my evaluation.
3. It may be a factor depending on its use in the round.
4. It rarely informs my decision.
Do you feel that a value and criterion are required elements of a case? Yes No

C. Rebuttals and Crystallization (check one of the answers for each question)
1. Final rebuttals should include a) voting issues or b) line-by-line analysis, or c) both.
2. Voting issues should be given a) as the student moves down the flow, b) at the end of the final speech, or c) either is acceptable.
3. Voting issues are a) absolutely necessary or b) not necessary (but I like to hear your opinion of what you think are the key or winning arguments and why - how can you impact them if you believe them to be voters. So no they are not "absolutely necessary" to winning a round, but I do like them).
4. The use of jargon or technical language ("extend," "cross-apply," "turn," etc.) during rebuttals is: a) acceptable (but please substantiate it - i.e. if you are truly going to attempt to "turn" an opponent's argument, be sure you do it and don't just say it. As with all terms, tell me how or why an argument extends or cross-applies - I won't flow it that way without at least 1-2 sentences of analysis. It can be short but I still need to be convinced - especially on a turn.) or b) unacceptable, or c) should be kept to a minimum.

D. How do you decide the winner of the round? (check the best answer)
1. I decide who is the better speaker regardless of whether they won specific arguments.
2. I decide who is the winner of the most arguments in the round.
3. I decide who is the winner of the key arguments in the round. (Additional philosophy: I focus on the analysis and substance - or quality - of your argumentation. While I will flow the entire round, I still pick up the debater who won on analysis. This means often the person who won the most arguments wins the round, but sometimes winning the flow doesn't mean winning the round - the analysis of the arguments matters and I have picked up debaters on 1 or 2 voters that weighed more heavily than whatever flowed to the opponent. This is why voters matter because it allows you to close with convincing analysis instead of relying solely on quantity of arguments won)
4. I decide who is the person who persuaded me more of his/her position overall.

E. How necessary do you feel the use of evidence (both analytical and empirical) is in the round?
Not necessary----------------------Sometimes necessary------------------Always necessary
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
F. Please describe your personal note-taking during the round.
1. I do not take notes.
2. I only outline the important arguments of each debater's case.
3. I write down the key arguments throughout the round.
4. I keep detailed notes throughout the round.
5. I keep a rigorous flow. 
  