
  Andrew Garcia

I am an assistant professor at Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi and the policy debate coach for W.B. Ray High School. I was a four-year NDT debater at Baylor University, though I have only recently returned to the activity after a law school hiatus.

GENERAL: I consider myself a strong Tabula Rasa judge. Ultimately, I do my best to minimize my role and preconceived notions about the world in the round. I will vote for virtually any argument (provided that it is sufficiently impacted). If the debaters fail to make comparative analysis regarding their versions of the debate or how the arguments interact, it forces me to uncomfortably connect the dots. To prevent passing ships, debaters should pay particular attention to describing the role of the ballot and why their paradigm for the debate should be preferred in the 2NR/AR.

In college, I both ran traditional policy arguments and critical positions. Although not definitive, here are some preferences that I have:

CX: I consider it to be one of the most underutilized portions of debate. An incisive and strategic CX can be devastating and I value it highly. I pay attention to it closely and consider what is said to be binding.

Delivery: I don’t mind speed, but many debaters attempt to go faster than they should, losing both clarity and efficiency. Make clear distinctions between tags and cards. Provide proper pen time on analytical arguments, T, or theory. Realize that you have the speech doc flashed to you, but I don’t.

K debates: I feel comfortable with critical arguments, but I have high expectations for alternative work. Make sure you are clearly articulating the implications of the K and help me visualize the alt. Specific link work in the block will be rewarded. Performative contradictions are dangerous, so be careful.

Performance/Affect/Clash of Civs: Haven’t had a lot of experience judging these arguments, as I was out of the game during their rise to prominence. I am open minded, though, provided that you highlight the role of the ballot and judge

DA/CP Strats: Sure. Impact analysis. Complement with case cards to short circuit the AFF impx. Be clear on the net benefit work. I will admit to be somewhat dubious about conditionality good.

FINAL NOTE: Perhaps this is a consequence of getting older, but I highly prefer pleasant rounds. Although this wasn’t something I was really good at during my career, it has become increasingly important to me. I believe you can be passionate, ardently advocate your positions and criticize your opponent’s arguments without screaming at the other team for 90 minutes. It won’t affect my ballot, but it will affect speaker points (and my general demeanor). Vitriol is wack, so save it for the squad van.

AG
  