
  Experience: 
Debated LD at Skyview 2002-2003,Qualified for and competed at Nationals, 2003Judged LD/PF and some policy 2006-presentCoach for Venture High School 2013-present

Speed: 8/10Can handle most speeds, but go very slowly on taglines/card headings and enunciate. Don't try to go faster than you are able. Speed doesn't win rounds.

LDI was a traditional LD debater and love philosophy, but the times they are a changin'.I first evaluate framework (typically value/criterion), then use winning framework (criterion) to evaluate impacts on the flow (impacts do not need to be dollar amounts or total lives lost, but if not explain why your impacts outweigh). If framework is a wash, I use both and see if there is a side that is able to meet both the best. You should talk about your value in every speech. Don't claim it's justice and then never mention it again.Impact link stories must be clear and make sense. Don't link to extinction unless you really mean it.I flow contentions and cards, so cover the flow. I typically don't vote on small dropped arguments unless the round is very close, and be sure to impact any dropped arguments.I like you to dedicate a portion of your last speech to crystallization/voters/round summary. Wrap everything up and tell me why I should vote for you.I am fine with Kritiks, theory, etc. as long as you know what you are talking about, and can explain it to your opponent.I do not like Plans/Counter Plans in LD. You may discuss possible means of implementation, but do not peg yourself down to a specific plan and do not propose a counter plan.

PFI evaluate primarily on logic and argumentation, but speaking ability will break a tie in a close round.Public Forum should be accessible to the "public." Make your arguments clear and do not spew.I do not flow cross x, if you made a point or got a concession from your opponent, bring it up in your next speech.Cross x can get heated, but keep it civil. Be forceful but respectful.I first evaluate framework, so provide a weighing mechanism to help me know how I should evaluate the round. I then use winning framework to evaluate impacts.
  