
  ABOUT ME: 
I’m a Computer Science major at UCLA, and debated LD at Milpitas High School for 3 years. Two of those years were on the circuit. My senior year, I cleared at most of the bid tournaments I attended and ended up bidding once. I can 100% guarantee you that I’m not going to be able to cover every single question you have in this paradigm, so feel free to message me on Facebook or email me at raks.garg@gmail.com for any questions you might have. 

CPS SPECIFIC:
I haven’t coached this topic, so don’t expect me to know “obvious things”. It’s been a while since I’ve flowed or even heard a debate round, so start slow when you spread and be organized for the sake of my flow and your speaker points. 

DEFAULTS:
Drop the arg on theory 
Drop the debater on T
No RVI’s on T or theory
Presumption flows aff

Remember that these are just defaults and I can be persuaded for or against them. 

STYLISTIC THINGS: 
Tech > truth
Flash whatever you read! If flashing isn’t an option, pass pages or let your opponent read over your shoulder. (As a general rule, good disclosure practices are good.) 
Extensions need claim, warrants, and implications
2AR Extensions don’t have to be perfect
I don’t see the point in extending the interpretation or plan/CP text
Big picture analysis is good. Very good. 
Pls crystallize by the end of your last speech.
CX is binding
I like when debates are about the topic

SPEAKS:
Speaker points are a reflection of your strat choices, not how well you speak. I will yell clear, slow, loud, etc. as needed. I give pretty inflated speaks. I love watching funny debaters, so if you make me smile or laugh, expect a slight raise. Good strategies are always fun to watch. If I think you deserve to clear, you're easily looking at 28.5+

SPREAD:
Haven’t spread/flowed spread in like a year -- start slow and build up. Slow down on the important stuff—theory interps, plan texts, some 1 sentence a-priori that you think is going to be hot stuff in the 2AR, basically anything you think i should pay extra attention to. It wouldn’t hurt to even say, “Rak, pay attention, this is important” 

THEORY:
I’ll vote on any shell, any interp, no matter how unconventional it is, but expect your speaker points to be inversely proportional to the frivolousness of your interp. If its “A: Interpretation: Must wear blue ties,” I’m going H.A.M. on your speaks and not in the good way. I presume aff on theory, and I’m not afraid to presume if the flow gets messy, so be smart about how y’all handle yourselves. 

TOPICALITY: 
I love T debate. I will vote on T debate. I will boost speaks for good T debate. I presume neg on T. 

RVI:
I think the RVI is illogical but I can see that it does have a place in competitive debate. I can be persuaded for either RVIs good or bad as long as its well handled (on both T and Theory). 

KRITIKS: 
If they’re simple enough that you can explain them to me without me giving you a “help me I’m lost” face, go for it. If not, it might be in your best interests to avoid it. I don’t have anything against K’s, its just that I’m probably not the best person to read them in front of, especially if you’re spreading. I’ll do my best to keep a tidy flow and keep everything organized, but I might be a better judge to read traditional plans/disads/t/theory in front of. 

DISADS/COUNTERPLANS/PLANS
Go for it.

FRAMEWORKS:
I found myself running a lot of util + a dash of determinism my senior year. Feel free to read whatever you want as long as its well warranted. Just make sure you keep your list of 14 reasons why your ethic is true organized (ESPECIALLY if you’re gonna extend a random justification in the 2AR/2NR and expect me to vote off it). 

MORALLY ATROCIOUS ARGUMENTS:
As much as I believe that debate should be an unrestricted space for free speech, I’m going to have a very hard time voting on your arguments if they create a hostile atmosphere for me or anyone else in the room. I know this sounds really arbitrary, but just ask me before the round if I’d be down for an argument you think you might end up reading. You probably know who you are if this applies to you. BTW I’m not going to vote for Racism Good, Misogyny Good, Homophobic arguments, or Rape Good arguments. 

DISCLAIMER: I’m perfectly okay with Extinction Good/Overpopulation turns/disads.
  