
  Edit: Caucus 2013 While my paradigm is basically the same, I haven't judged many tournaments in the past year. This means that my ability to flow as well as follow speed is worse than before, but that being said I can still follow arguments and most moderate spreed. Also, this means that I'm not familiar with the topic so please don't assume I know various topic specific acronyms or other jargon.

My name is Samantha Gerleman and I am currently a second year out. I debated for Des Moines Roosevelt for four years (national circuit LD all four years save for Jan/Feb my senior year when I did policy and PF because of the topic)

The short version: I will vote on anything. I don’t really care for theory for strategic purposes (aka drop them because they were mean) and am very receptive to RVIs or Offensive Counter Interpretations. K’s/unconventional positions are chill. Speed is awesome, but clarity is even better. I have a higher than average threshold for extensions. For more specific questions, please see below.

Random Important Stuff That You Should Probably Read
I don’t care if you dress up, sit, stand, listen to music in prep, or use your computerI do care about being respectful to your opponent and not being rude or deceitful. You can be aggressive and confident, I encourage you do to so, but don’t be a tool otherwise your speaks will suffer.I will say clear once as a freebie, after that if you are still unclear I’ll look unhappy and you should hope you fix the problem.If an argument is not on my flow I will not call for it after the round and I will not evaluate it.If an argument is on the flow and there is a question of the legitimacy of evidence or the warrant I will call it after round.I don’t default to truth testing or comparative worlds. If you want to exclude arguments based upon a paradigm, justify said paradigm in round otherwise I won’t exclude a K because of truth testing or an a priori because we evaluate comparative worlds unless there is a warrant for doing so.An extension includes a claim, warrant and impact. I might be lenient on the Aff for time skew reasons. I only vote for extended arguments.
Theory/Topicality
If an argument is justified with fairness as a reason to “drop the debater” I am willing to evaluate an RVI or Offensive Counter Interpretation (a la Cathrine Tarsney.) This includes both theory and T.Conversely, if the impact of the argument has the implication of “drop the argument” I am not willing to evaluate an RVI or Offensive Counter Interpretation.I never understood the incentive to go into a round and try to win because you claim someone was unfair to you. Theory is supposed to shape communal norms in a positive way, treat it as such.If a theory or T debate does happen please weigh between standards otherwise I am much more comfortable washing theory and voting elsewhere on the flow.
Critical Arguments/Kritiks
K’s are probably my favorite position. Do well with one and you will be rewarded.K’s should have alts unless you have a very good reason why you don’t need one.Be able to explain your rhetoric in common language. Chances are I will understand your obscure rhetoric but for fairness reasons your opponent needs to be able to as well.Slow down if you are reading an un-common strat
Other Policy arguments
Please only run a CP when it makes sense to. Most Affs won’t present a plan so competition or mutual exclusivity can be iffy and some topics don’t lend themselves to a CP because of a lack of fiat which can make things harder to evaluate.Disads are a similar story. Make sure there is a clear link to the Aff.Politics Disads are dumb in LD, I want them to die.Plans are fine, make sure to slow down and be clear for the plan text.
Speaks
I try to give a 27 for an average job. You are very hard pressed to get a 30 from me, but it can be done. Clash, humor, weighing, and good argument coverage will get you good speaks. Being rude, under-covering things, not being responsive, and making un-strategic arguments will get you low speaks.
  