
  Judging Forte:

Lincoln-Douglas debate

Experience:

While I only participated in Lincoln-Douglas debate for a little over a year in High School, I am currently in my third year of debate-judging. I have participated in numerous local tournaments, including State and National Qualifiers.


Philosophy:

In a word, I am a traditional Lincoln-Douglas judge. I don't believe that most progressive argument structures have a place in Lincoln-Douglass, as Lincoln-Douglas is an evaluation of a proposition of value, and is meant to emphasize clear and effective communication. If I feel that a layperson would have no chance of understanding an argument or case, it will almost certainly meet with my disapproval.

Related to the notion that Lincoln-Douglas is supposed to emphasize clarity and effective communication, it is never acceptable to simply assume that your judge will pick up on dropped contentions, implied extensions, turns, or what have you. Anything that you want to get in my notes for the round, you must explicitly state. Likewise, if a point is made during Cross-Examination, it should be brought up in the next speech.

Regarding time, I am not opposed to flex prep, if both contestants are comfortable with it. Speeches will have a grace period of three seconds to end once official time is up. Any further will result in a loss of speaker points.

Regarding debate decorum, I do not stand on ceremony. You may sit during Cross-Examination if you wish, you may speak to whomever you wish in the round, etc... I do ask that the debaters maintain a professional demeanor, but otherwise, I have very few decorum preferences.

Voting:

When possible, I try to vote off of the Value/Criterion debate. A clear win on the Value/Criterion will supersede contention debate, especially if the contentions are grounded in evidence and statistics, rather than logic and ethics. It is important to remember that Lincoln-Douglas concerns itself with What ought to be, and not What is. If the framework is neglected in the round, or both sides do an admirable job of upholding their framework whilst attacking their opponents, I then move on to the contention debate. As a last resort, I will vote off of presentation and speaking skills.
  