
  Background
I competed in Policy in high school and a bit of Parli in college. I have judged for about 8 years. I am the head coach at Lone Peak High School.

I would categorize myself as a fairly traditional judge, but will allow most things to fly in a round. Although I competed in Policy, I don't think its format are effective in other events. I think there is value in LD debates that include V/C arguments, instead of a 1-man Policy debate. I think PF should not imitate a short version of Policy. You can do what you like (its your event) and I will still vote for a progressive case, but I think you are selling yourself and your event short.

My main concern is you provide a clear analysis to show why you are winning the arguments you are winning and impact calculus to show why they are important enough to win the entire round.


Spreading and evidence
I am probably slow, so I prefer clear arguments. If you say something in a way I can't understand, that is your problem, not mine. I will not ask for tags to be repeated, I will not ask to see the case, so you better hope I got it the first time. 

I don't call for cards at the end of the round to check them for warrants. If the card is garbage, then it is the opponents job to point that out in round. If the card is the best thing ever, you better point that out in round. I would vote for 1 good card run well compared to 15 cards that are spread but don't really apply to anything. Quality is better than quality, but you have to explain it.


Theory / K / T
I, for the most part will listen to any arguments, as long as you provide clear links or rationale as to why you are spending time on it in round. If the argument is weighted properly and the link story is there, I will vote on it. Whining about timeskews needs to have substantial reasons to consider it, a better option would be to include education as . 


Random Pet Peeves
Flashing is such a waste of time. I think competitors should learn how to listen to the other peoples' arguments and flow properly. Judges have to do that, too... I wouldn't assign a loss for taking foreverbut it is annoying...

I don't care if you sit or stand in cross-ex, I don't care if you look at the opponent, etc. 
  