
  Princeton 2016: My paradigm was once longer but i've been out of debate for a few years now so this is a new one.

BACKGROUND : I debated at Hunterdon Central for four years. I was coached Ty Joplin and debated mostly on New Jersey and Northeastern circuit. I currently study math and classics at Swarthmore College. 

HOW I LOOK AT DEBATE: I believe that debate is an educational activity and the skills you learn are the most valuable aspects of this activity. With that said, debate is of course very competitive, and most of the benefits we can take away from the activity come directly as a result of the competitive nature. This means that I see my role in the round in the round as an educator in some capacity. 

HOW TO GET TO MY BALLOT: First, you can consider me a traditional judge. I want to hear a substantive debate and I want to hear you engage with the topic lit. Second, evaluate the big picture. This means that you should be comparative - tell me which FW is winning, and what offense should count. Remember, you don't have to be winning every argument to win the round, you just need to be winning the arguments that are most important in your eyes. 

POLICY ARGUMENTS: While Kritiks, Disads, Counterplans, etc.. used to be fine with me, they are no longer okay. I don't have anything against these arguments, but I've been out of debate too long to be comfortable judging them. 

THEORY: I have a high threshold for theory and will vote on it only if you see no other way out. I will intervene on frivolous theory. 

SPEED: Go slowly. I'm definitely not as fast as I used to be and i'll let you know during the round if i'm missing what you're saying. Slow down on tag lines/authors/ anything else important you want me to get down.

SPEAKING POINTS: I'll start you off with a 27.5 and you'll probably stay around there. Generally, a 28.5 means i think you should break, but my formula for speaks is as arbitrary as anyone else's so i try to be kind.

GENERAL STUFF I LIKE: Well-placed, well-timed, witty and pertinent jokes that help you make a point. Being nice to your opponent. Have respect. Uniquely thought-provoking arguments (clarification: not hackneyed arguments that attempt to sound creative or smart but really lack substance). Debaters having fun. Don’t treat a debate like it’s a funeral, but don’t treat it like an informal party either. Philosophy (as long as its topical). BEING PERSUASIVE. 

I DON’T LIKE : Racist, homophobic, sexist, etc remarks that degrade your opponent/other people. generic arguments are bad. don't bastardize the literature. Being mean to your opponent. Unclear rounds. If you have any more questions, feel free to e-mail me at jgichan@gmail.com.
  