
  LD Paradigms 
 
Speed- Spreading is fine with me, but please do not think that I will vote for whoever can spread more clearly, faster, etc. If you do spread, please make sure that it is actually understandable. Anything that I cannot understand, for example, in the NC or AC that is brought up later in a rebuttal will seem like a new argument to me, which is not good. Just make sure that if you do spread, your tags and authors are clear and I would advise that picking up on speed as you go would be best rather than starting off fast unless you can stay consistent. 
Argumentation- The way to win my ballot is to make sure that you are consistent and focused on argumentation and conflict. I will flow just about everything you and your opponent say so I advise that you try to keep up as dropped arguments aren’t hard for me to miss. That’s right, I’m a flow judge so make sure you are flowing. Also PLEASE warrant all arguments! If you do not, I won’t consider them- no matter how convincing you may seem. I do enjoy theory and factual but please remember that whatever seems more concrete and warranted has a higher likelihood of being favored. 
Philosophy- I am a philosophy major, so anything philosophical you throw at me is fine. Just to be fair, please don’t take advantage of this. If you are going to use this as a tool without clarifying your usage then it might hurt you more than it would help. One interpretation can vaguely differ from another so I would appreciate it if you would give me some insight as to what your interpretation and validity come from. 
Resolutional Debate- Although the round may go in one direction, please try not to stray too far away from the resolution. I am more about truth and falsehood of the resolution and who can solve best for the status quo. 
Style- Since debate in any aspect is foundated on communication, please respect this. I will not be impressed if you try to confuse your opponent or me or furthermore choose to be rude and disrespectful. Doing this will only devalue the activity, interfere with the round, impact your speaker points and potentially even your ballot. I hate to sound so harsh but please try to make this fair for everyone. Other than that, I have seen several different styles on the national circuit so I am pretty open to something new. 
Voters- Please make it VERY clear as to which arguments you would like to be considered as a voter in your rebuttal.  
 
Overall I am pretty fair and unbiased. I don’t specifically vote on any one argument from round to round, so please remember that and don’t be surprised if I vote on one argument in one round and not favor it in the next. Each round is a new one and should be treated as such. LD is a value debate so don’t forget that! I was introduced with “old school” style so this is important for me. Any questions before the round are welcomed. 






CX Paradigms


CX Philosophy: I’m not too specific when it comes to types of argumentation as far as stock issues, old school or something new. As long as you have warrants and strong impacts then you’ll be just fine. 
Topicality: If your argument on potential abuse is that there were arguments you could have run but didn't then it is unlikely you will win the abuse debate in front of me. However, if you can exhibit in-round abuse then you will likely have a good chance of winning the debate. I don't think that the aff needs to have "offense" on theory or T to win, but it helps. 
DA's: You must be controlling the uniqueness and link portion of the debate to get a risk of your impact. I also feel that you should have a strong internal link. If your DA lacks these components, but if the Aff does not make these Args, then the Neg will probably win the DA. Finding ways for your DA to turn the case is really helpful. Case specific DA with a strong link card is amazing. I primarily evaluate the link debate when looking at a DA. That being said, you can win 100% uniqueness takeouts, but it requires a heavy evaluation of evidence and/or well explained argument. 
CP's: The importance of CP's is surpassed only by DA. Well written PIC is oaky; good strategy and originality. International Fiat is a bit more questionable, as is conditional fiat such as consult CPs which are okay but take a little more explanation. Perms are good- they must have all of the plan and all or part of the CP. If you "perm: do the CP" you must explain how and why.  
Kritiks: If the argument is explained well then I feel there is a good chance you picking up my ballot, but don't think you can spend 2 minutes in the block on it and still go in-depth on the K. But please do NOT use this as a way out to not debate. With K I don’t prefer these but I will listen. When you explain your alternatives be specific. You should have one. Be specific and detailed. Arguments like "This is not the right form" are not very persuasive to me at all. 
Theory in general: When going for theory I recommend that you slow down. If you have 40 points on your theory block and you spew down every single one in 25 seconds I may miss one or two so I suggest slowing down a little when going at these Args. 
Speed: Go for it but here's a warning. I can get the main points down no matter how fast you go but if blow through a case and then plan on winning on a couple of clever extensions based on mini-arguments you made in case, be careful. If I don't have them down, I can't flow them and your case pretty much just fell apart. I can stay with you for a while, but if you look at me and can see I'm struggling (I am very expressive in rounds), slow it down a bit. Slow down at tag, but after that you should be fine. 
Impact Calculus: Do the work for me. The less I have to do the easier my decision is. Impact standards need to be fair- nothing messy. 
Literature: I don’t care as far as it being recent but just make sure you have unique literature. The more the better. 
My ballot: Get creative with this. The more you can paint a picture for me the better time I’ll have.  
Warrant your arguments: I will vote on anything that is warranted and I won't on anything that is not. You will also need to indicate what your voters are. 
Speaker Points: Independent from round decision. If I need to give a low-point win I will, just don’t give me a reason to. 
As far as prior to the round I’m open for questions so ask away! 
  