
  Not sure how many people know who I am, but I went to Caddo Magnet High School, and now I debate for the University of Oklahoma. I'd like to think I'm an alright debater, and I generally go for high theory type critical arguments but as a judge I'm actually very moderate. I'm a very flow oriented judge but I do not believe that if an argument is conceded that makes it true. For example, I once judged a round where the affirmative gave AIDS drugs to Africa and claimed to solve for disease. The negative read a cap K, and the affirmative conceded that capitalism means the aff can't solve AIDS in africa. Upon reading the card, the warrant was that capitalism is the reason why we won't give AIDS drugs to africa. In this scenario I still hold the warrant to a high standard of validity before voting for it.

I don't necessarily enjoy a type of argument over another; I enjoy good debate. If you want to debate a c/p and politics, or a DA and case, or a K, or T just do it well. This also influences my understanding of T and other theory arguments. While many judges believe that the neg/aff, really needs to be bleeding or really show abuse for them to vote on T/theory, I view it just like any other argument. If you win a link, win the impact is the ballot, and I'll vote on it.

I am a stickler for clarity. If you are clear you will be more efficient and thus faster anyway.

I absolutely love good strategic decisions. If you believe the 2ac has double turned themselves, I am totally cool with the 2nc standing up and conceding the way the aff has link and impact turned themselves and explaining why that's a reason to vote neg. 2 minutes, then sit down.

Evidence means very little to me. You should have evidence on most issues, and it will make your argument more persuasive in ways, but if you make a legitimate, good warranted argument, I consider that just as good as a piece of evidence. As such, I read very little evidence.

Last thing don't dominate your partner or your opponent. Being an asshole is not funny, it doesn't give you ethos. It doesn't make you look cool to answer all of your partner's cross-x questions, though I am guilty of it as well in some cases. Being a smart ass is very different from being an ass hole. Just try and be nice, you can attract more flies with honey than vinegar.
  