
  General


I believe that debate is a game, and debaters can and should use any tricks to win. I’m also a fan of the line by line and I will never intervene unless it’s absolutely required. Speaker Points are awarded based on ability to give a good line by line, cross-x, quality of arguments, and clarity and general persuasiveness while speaking.


Speed

Go as fast as you possibly can while remaining clear. I would prefer that you slow down for the tags/cites. I will call clear if you get unclear and if you don't clear up, I'll flow what I can and dock your speaker points. I will not feel bad for missing an argument that I couldn't flow.


Kritiks

I think they’re extremely strategic, especially when they’re run as a floating PIC. But they’re also pretty abusive and most Alts have terrible solvency, so call the neg out on that.

CPs

I default to weighing the solvency deficit against the net benefit. I’ll entertain all CP theory, but you’ll have a hard time winning theory if a CP is both textually and functionally competitive.

DAs

I like specific DAs, but generics are fine. Extend warrants of the evidence, its way more persuasive than post-date arguments. Most DA evidence is absolutely terrible, and you should call them out on sketchy uniqueness evidence.


Topicality

I love topicality debates. Although it’s usually pretty obvious if an aff is topical enough, so don’t make your 1NC time skew your 2NR strat. I find reasonability persuasive, as I like to believe I’m a reasonable person. But I will vote on FX or Extra T pretty easily.


Framework

I default utilitarianism, because it’s easy. If you want me to switch, tell me.

Performance

Although I will vote for you, I’m not a good judge for this. Unless you’re willing to engage the other team on the line-by-line you will probably lose.

Theory

I prefer fairness over education, but just win the line by line on theory. I default reject arg not team, but if you say otherwise and its conceded you win.


Other Notes

I'm fine with teams debating paperless and don't count prep for flashing evidence over. If it takes you more than 30 seconds to save a document and hand it to the team you probably shouldn’t debate, or reproduce for that matter. I will dock you time if you steal prep. 
  