
  First and fore most debate is a game. That being said I will vote for literally anything, and I mean anything, you just have to win its net beneficial.

Topicality:
I will vote for it, and am cool with it. I prefer for people not to use stupid definitions though.

Framework: 
I believe framework is key negative ground against kritikal affs, the 2 big things that would win the debate for me is a topical version and/or switch side debate. But make sure that you answer all the offense because I'd also be willing to pull the trigger on offense from the framework flow even if you do not extend it in your 2NR, its still a possibility for the Aff to go for it.

DA's
Go for it, but paint a clear story and how it interacts with the Aff, if I don't know how it interacts with the aff then why read it. 

CP's
I prefer counterplans that are competitive through action not text, it would be hard for me not to vote for a CP because its textually competitive but not competitive through action. 

K's
Go for it, explain your K like I never heard of the lit base. I want a clear story and huge thing, is to explain the story, generic: Perm answers might get you somewhere but not in a close round. 

Perm:
Just prove why the perm works or doesnt work, real easy.

Theory
I will vote on anything just win the argument, so I'm cool with theory.

Turns
I personally identify as an Impact turn debater, so I love love love seeing some turns in the round. You want to make me excited go for a good turn.

MISC/Prefs
I err on the side of, extinction comes first (you can win it doesnt but explain to me why.)
Condo- its cool, do you thought, if you want a condo debate, go for it.
Cross-X is where you get speaker point bumps, so use it. Also Open Cross-X is great. 
Prep- Stop prep when you are done prepping, flashing is off time but make sure nobody is stealing prep, if they are I will start counting it.
Don't be rude, its not cool. 
Speed is fine, I prefer it but whatever.



If you have any questions just ask me. Remember I WILL VOTE FOR ANYTHING.
  