
  My history with debate is pretty love-hate. Because of this, I have turned from the path of debate and MUN to a life of chemistry and statistics. So its pretty safe to assume that I've never heard your specific Queering the Resolution affirmative, or at least haven't heard anything like it in 3 years. Not to say you shouldn't read the arguments that you find personally meaningful/think will win you a round. Just please make sure I can understand it!
On to some more specifics:
I had moderate success in a few circuits in high school, so while I can probably kick some novice butt, some of you are no doubt much more knowledgeable about debate than me, and are far more skilled. I hope my decisions don't offend or upset you, as I have a different skill cap when it comes to flowing and comprehending spreading. I will try to be as fair a judge I can, but usually explaining something clearly to me is gonna help you a lot. This being said, if I can't understand something, I will usually treat it as null. If it seems like I missed a very important tag or author, I will ask to see the card at the end of the round. 
*For all the novices out there, for the love of sweet baby Jesus, signpost your speeches! If you don't know what that means, as your coach!*
On top specific arguments:
Racist/homophobic/generally being a piece of shit isn't tolerated. Its that easy!

K: Love me some Nietzsche (yea I'm one of those). I would say I can grasp K's easily enough, and they make debate more fun for me so go wild w these! K aff's/performance affs are also super dope, as long as we keep it clean/I can tell there is a reason for the performance beyond saying performance good to score brownie points. Some of my fav debate rounds have boiled down to discussions of social location, so hit me with what you go.

FW: On the topic of K affs, I'm just gonna say I personally only read FW like once or twice in my career. The flow gets messy so keep it clean for me and I'll try to keep up. I view FW as that debaters social location. For all of us, debate is a community, and it either accepts of rejects us (sadly it does reject a lot of us). Regardless of which camp you fall under, FW is a very techy debate lingo-y way to talk about how debate should be. I will come in totally blank however, so if a team tells me not to evaluate FW and give me a reason that is dropped, I will have to do what they say

T: Oh boy. I've trolled a lot with T. It can be fun, and it can also suck. MAke sure you aren't just reading your T blocks, and actually engaging the other team. Otherwise you'll prolly lose, and I'll be sad for you :(.

DA's/CP's: These are fine. I'm completely unfamiliar with the topic lit, so explain it to me otherwise I will have a hard time voting for it.
  