
  I debated for 4 years in High School for Ann Arbor Community High, and 2 1/2 years policy debate/Some LD debate in College (CMU and EMU). I am just now getting back into the activity after about 16 years, and am excited to be the new coach for the new Kingsley High school debate team near Traverse City, MI. Although I am pretty good at flowing, etc, I am a little rusty, and some of the newer arguements (K, etc) need to be explained thoroughly if you want me to vote on it (for example, don't just say "Capitalism Kritique" and assume I know what that is-tell me what it is/why you should win the round with it).

The major thing that you should know is that I will not do your work for you. I will not weigh the round for you, and I will vote on arguments that you may think do not hold much weight/are unimportant if you drop them and the other team pulls them through and tells me why they win (for example, if I think your case is Topical, but your opponents run a "T" argument that they explain well, and that has all of the required points, and you drop it, I will vote on it. Or if your impacts are extinction, and theirs are nuke war, but they weigh the round and you don't...I could vote for the other team).

I will vote on any stock issue, including T if you prove why you should win. I am not crazy about Inherency arguments, as I find they are usually really Harm or Solvency arguments, but I will vote on it if you win it completely.

I will vote on net risk-If I vote Aff, this happens vs. If I vote neg this happens (whichever is best scenerio as far as impacts go). However, if you are aff and lose on T, you will lose the round regardless of your impacts. (That being said, I don't particularly like ridiculous/time suck T arguments).

I am not crazy about "K"s, but I have been known to vote on them if you tell a very good story/tell me why you should win the round with it, and the other team does not have good answers.

MIFA says no tag teaming, so at MIFA tournaments, your speaker points will suffer for this. Rudeness to your opponents will also have an effect on your speaker points. (As will politeness).

Please do a good road map and tell me where you are going if you change it during your speech!! Numbering things, or saying "next" are to your benefit, because then you will be sure I flowed it. If I didn't flow it, you didn't say it.

Paperless debate is a good thing, but only when done efficiently. You MUST have a viewing computer that WORKS and can TURN ON near the other teams prep area (I have seen far too many debates where the viewing computer is missing, out of batteries with no plug nearby, etc...). Prep time does not count while you are "flashing"/etc, but you cannot be doing any preparation during this time. If you don't know how to use your computer/flash/etc, and you waste time during the round trying to figure it out, your speaker points will suffer.

If you have any questions before the round about what arguments I do/don't like, please feel free to ask when both teams are in the room.
  