
  Giorgione, Joey
 Judge for Foothill High School
School Strikes: Foothill High School

Philosophy


Policy making: wasnt my forte in High School But its always fun to see a strong p-making round. DA's/CP's/Case run it!!!!

Kritiks: I tend to lean toward more critical versions of affs ie progressive affs, k affs, and performance affs- because thats what i ran in high school. As far as the negative kritik- the alternative should have a role of the ballot within the alternative or shortly after. Will not vote for a team that has no alt.... at least have a rejection alt and all alternatives should be carded excluding rejection.

Performance: Love it!!! anything from radical role playing to rap but as far as silence ks please read some literature during the 1NC without a proper framework for your criticsm within the 1NC- i will not flow it during the block. it gives the aff no time to respond.[if u still want to run the k without any literature during the 1NC make sure to open up the ability for the aff to have a 3AC]

Theory: Topicality is usually a wash and I wont pick up any neg team that runs top and kicks it- if you want to run t it should be seen in the 2nr. This topicality rule doesnt apply to framework and resolved T. any other theory arg ill pull the trigger on if its articulated well- encluding but not limited to: dispo condo, uncondo, politics das bad/god, interntl fiat good/bad, multi actor fiat good bad, severence perms good/bad, intrinstic perms good/bad, k perms good/bad, test case fiat good/ba, pics good/bad.... ect.

Speaking: If you're not clear, I'll yell clear. If you don't clear up after my second call for clear I'll stop flowing.

Other stuff
-- I think speaker points are pretty arbitrary and overly inflated. Yet, they matter a lot for clearing teams and I’ll do my best to be fair even though I feel thier LAME!
-- Funny = good. Obviously. I understand that not everyone is a comedian. I don’t expect you to be there to amuse me. I’m not going to start doling out 30s to people who are funny. But if you can do it, I’ll enjoy it.

any other questions just ask.
  