
  SAM GLENZER - JUDGING PHILOSOPHY - VARSITY POLICY DEBATE
 SPASH
Stevens Point, WI




I fall under the confines of the tabs judging philosophy.... so there isn't an argument I won't vote on if you're winning on it. I do however have some preferences.

I debated for two years at SPASH, and since then I have been judging Varsity debate for eight years now at in state(Wisconsin) and national tournaments ranging from the Iowa Caucus to the NFL National tournament. I've probably voted negative about 55-60 percent of the time.

Speed is highly encouraged so long as you're clear, but that usually isn't an issue for me. This doesn't however mean that several poor arguments will necessarily beat out one well developed argument. If you aren't clear, I'll warn you twice, but if you're still unclear beyond that, look at me with my pen down.

Since I work for a Mayor, politics are my favorite argument, but be sure that the uniqueness and link evidence are up to date. This means it'd be neat to hear arguments about the upcoming midterm elections.

I love the kritik, and I've voted for it far more times for it than against it, but I hate when teams think its good enough to keep repeating the same tag line of what their argument is but fail to understand what their author's original intent of their writings were. I'd encourage an elaborate link story, especially with the Cap K since teams seem to run it in response to anything under the sun. So please, please, please, be able to explain exactly what your kritik is trying to say in SPECIFIC terms relative to the round. The framework/role of the ballot debate is also extremely important to my decision.

Generic disadvantages are sometimes interesting to hear, but please be sure that they actually link when they are used, and try not to double turn yourself. It makes the round painful for everyone.

In general, keep your evidence up to date. It's always a laugh to hear it called out when something thats already come to pass. Call out your warrants, and don't lie about it either, because I will occasionally ask for evidence at the end of a round.

Topicality is probably my favorite issue and one of the least well run. Though sometimes acceptably argued as non-substantive, the T debate keeps affirmatives in check.

This might be rather lacking in details on face, so feel free to ask me any questions on any specific issues you might have, I'm open to nearly any argument.... Performance affs are not recommended, but if you manage to win on some sort of direct action level. You must win decisively though.
  