
  I debated for four years at Moore High School in OK and currently debate at the University of Central OK.

She/her pronouns

I think debate should be an accessible and educational activity. With that in mind I am open to basically any argument as long as it isn't racist, sexist, homophobic, offensive, etc.
In high school I read a lot of arguments about indigenous epistemology (like Byrd and Deloria) and now I read a range of arguments anywhere from indigenous arguments to feminist arguments to security ks to traditional policy strats like T, DA, CP, K, Case. Do not change your strategy to what you think I like, debate should be about you, not me, so do what you do best and I'll evaluate it.

Here's how I evaluate most arguments:

T - I haven't judged a lot of rounds on this topic yet so I'm not as familiar with the literature. To win a T debate in front of me you have to impact out your reasons for why being T is good, however I am very susceptible to impact turns. That being said, if you win instrumental implementation is a good thing then I'll vote on it. I like arguments about why things like clash and education are good. I also think it helps to give examples of affs that couldn't be read under the aff interp. I don't lean one way or another on competing interps vs reasonability.

FW vs a K Aff - Not my favorite argument. I would rather you read a specific T and have some FW type standards. However if it isn't answered properly I will vote on it. I evaluate it similarly to T, it needs impacted out analysis. However, I am very susceptible to FW if the aff DOES NOT defend a change from the status quo.

FW vs a K - I think the aff should be able to weigh their impacts and that Ks should be allowed in debate. You won't win that a K should be excluded in front of me unless the other team severly mishandles your FW.

DA - Go for it. I prefer that they have specific links to the plan. I also think they're a good way to prove abuse on T.

CP - Again, go for it. I can tell a cheaty CP when I see one so reading theory is always a good idea.

K - This is probably my favorite type of debate to judge. I'm down for anything from identity debates to high theory, however I am not as versed in high theory as I am in other forms of kritikal literature. Make sure you explain a clear link and impact and give warranted analysis instead of using just buzz words. I also am not likely to vote on links of omission unless they are legitimately dropped.

Theory - I think conditionality is a good thing as long as it isn't being abused by the negative. However, I will vote on warranted analysis of why contradicting condo or conditional ethics are bad.

Kritikal/Performance Affs - I enjoy judging these debates as well. However, I think affs should defend some change from the status quo. You can't just defend some "capital T" Truth in the 1ac and say vote aff, provide a strategy or method of changing it.

Other - Don't be rude during the round. Debate is supposed to be educational and people can't get that if you're constantly being rude. That includes to your partner and the other team. I will dock your speaker points if you are unneccesarily rude or aggressive. 
Prep time stops when the flash drive leaves the computer.
Also, I have been told I make faces during the round. These are just my "thinking faces" so you shouldn't worry about them.

If you have any questions about my philosophy or decisions feel free to email me at gabiglide2@gmail.com
  