
  I love debate. I have been deep in the trenches as both a debater and as a coach. I have also enjoyed some recent time away from debate which has allowed me to reflect on the activity from the perspective of an outsider.

It is easy to get lost in the minutiae of debate (and I have read many judge philosophies which try to resolve every possible nuance of a round). This can be helpful but also distracting. Debate is a game of complexities and there are many ways to play this game. Ultimately, I believe that debate can--though I would not go so far as to that is it should or must--mean something different to everyone involved and there is plenty of space for all. Debate can be self-righteous and defensive of its habits. It can be a platform for profoundly meaningful pedagogical inquiry. Debate can sometimes be rightly seen as an elite or exclusive activity, but one which paradoxically opens many paths to discovery and empowerment.

So what am I here to do? Judges reward some for their technical mastery and others for their creative provocations. I believe both have merit. Some judges consider the rules of the game immutable while others argue that debate is or should be a creature of the particular moment. Insofar as I can approach the round without bias, I do not wish nor do I intend to write the round for you before it is allowed to happen. I am here to try, to the best of my ability, to find coherence in the context that the debaters provide. I will leave it to the debaters to articulate and defend that context. 

That said, I am very comfortable with arguments and positions from across the universe of policy debate. I am comfortable with all speeds and styles. I like humor. I do not like to make assumptions. There is probably a better way than mockery to make an argument. I very much hope that everyone can enjoy the round and learn something along the way.

I am happy to answer any questions before or after the round.

I debated for Valley High School in West Des Moines, Iowa from 2003-2007. While attending the University of Chicago and for a time after graduation, I coached Oak Park & River Forest High School in Illinois from 2007-2013. I coached Dowling Catholic High School in the 2013-2014 season. Since 2014, I have not been affiliated with any program.
  