
  Greenwood Laboratory School '09
Wake Forest University '13

I am currently not familiar with the high school topic. I have had experience with all styles of debate at one point or another. I would say I am open to judging any type of debate--BUT please let it be quality.
I appreciate great topicality debates. That said--gotta be good because I don't know the resolution. It's all about competing interpretations. Usually. Theory debates are like the diluted version of topicality and framework debates. So try to improve that perception and do it well.
Framework debates need application to the round and understanding of what the purpose of this debate game is should be communicated and impacted.
My current debate activities emphasize policy arguments. Don't explain everything to me but explain things that are abnormal, new, or related to the topic.
Exploit errors. If someone makes an error, whomever capitalizes on it first will be rewarded. Operate accordingly.
Cheat (in your making of arguments) as often as possible. I like people who are smart enough and crude enough to do what it takes to win. I've been a 2a and 2n off and on throughout my 6 years of debate experience. Cheat whenever you can and notice when the other team cheats.
Be classy. And by that I mean, make things happen in your debates with grace and poise. If you're out of your element control yourself. If you're stomping someone restrain yourself. Think before you speak. Self-awareness is a skill undervalued. Remember- I'm from Missouri where debate is still respected as a public speaking event (sometimes in front of janitors and moms). I know tons about decorum and I appreciate it. (yes, yes I can still keep up with you and your fancy talk. i'm unimpressed.)
Rebuttals- Impact analysis. If you know how to do this already then step up your game and apply it to the debate and the opposing teams impacts. Thanks.
A good friend of mine repeatedly tells me, "Debate is suppose to be fun. If it ever stops being fun, you better figure out how to make it fun again or it just isn't worth it anymore." Agreed.
I love debate and I appreciate people who appreciate it as much as I do.

 
  