
  4 years policy debate
Novice coach at E.L.C
college student

case:
Case is the simplest and one of the strongest arguments that the Aff has. I would prefer if the Aff extends their plan text all the way through the debate but if not i wont hold it against the team when i judge.As far as the Neg is concerned i always enjoy hearing some sort of solvency arguments but if you choose not to run any arguments on the case at all i expect really good case turn arguments on your off cases

DA:
I personally like the Da because of my four years as a policy debate. I prefer when DA's are more abstract but still make sense mainly because it makes the debate more interesting. I will advise that if a team chooses to run some obscure DA they do lots of work on the link. I usually will not vote on a DA alone unless the Neg has a really good explanation on how they completely turn the Affs case.

CP:
when it comes to cps i really don't enjoy when a team runs Pic cps. fro example i would like judging a cp that says do the aff but pass it through NATO. I will vote on it if the team puts in work but it wont be fun. i will not vote on a cp if there is no net benefit or if it's not expressed clearly.

kritik:
as far as the kritik goes i enjoy hearing the arguments but the alternative usually falls short. the only possible thing i can see an alt solving for is some kind of in round impact. that's not to say that i wouldn't vote on an impact that says we solve cap by rejecting the aff because i will if the neg does a decent job of explaining the alt.

speaker points
i will usually award around 27.5 speaker points for a the top speaker in a round where both teams are average and just go down by .05 until i reach 4th place. if a speaker makes me laugh or does a really good job of putting their personality in a speech i will award higher speaker points.

Things i enjoy seeing in rounds
i really love when teams make analytic arguments but don't get to obsessed with them. i believe debate should be about having fun so i really enjoy when teams choose to experiment with new weird arguments. the most hilarious argument a team can make in my opinion are impact turns especially if its an impact with a huge magnitude like nuclear war or something.
  