
  I debated for 4 years for the Dallas Urban Debate Alliance, and I used to debate for UTSA.

K:I do find that many teams leave out explaining how their alternative functions, and what the value of the discussion serves within the debate space. Read any K in front of me, just explain the link story and how the alt resolves the harms highlighted. Make the links extremely apparent or I am bound to give the permutation a shot

DAs- They're chill with me, although I would prefer not to judge a "20 nuke wars vs 19 nuke wars and a transition war" debate, ill do it.

T- Chill with me, my partner and I usually never went for T in debate but I can definitely see the value in a T debate, just make sure the impacts are explained well,only saying "vote for fairness and education" more often than not wont win you the ballot unless the aff literally doesnt answer the standards to vote on

FW- Please explain your impacts, what a T version of the aff would look like, and what my role as a judge in the back of the room is. Setting it up this way allows for best clash for my style of flowing and will defiantly help in your favor.

Performance/Projects:Explain why your method of engagement was beneficial. What my role is in the debate as a judge etc.

Speed: Perfectly fine as long as it is clear, it would be awesome if you said "next" between cards so that the flow is cleaner.
 
Cps- To be honest, kind of bore me, but I love it when teams write CP's that are actually specific to certain affirmatives. Generic actor CP's bore me but ill evaluate it.

Extra stuff:
Calling a ethics challenge stops the round and ill evaluate the challenge and vote based on that alone. No take-sies backsies, if youre going to do this pls be serious.

Speaks: Ask me about them, but for you to get a 29+ Id have to be convinced you're definitely breaking at whatever tournament im currently judging at. If you're being finicky with flashing/ stealing prep your speaks will show for it.

Any Questions? Ask me when you see me or email me @ javierjosegonzalez@icloud.com
  