
  I’m in my first year out of college. I debated at UMKC, did very well, and have judged a lot of rounds on the HS topic as well.

Theory:

I will vote on theory, but the aff will need a pretty decisive victory. Conditionality is probably ok. Generally I default negative on status of the cp (condo/dispo good), but I am open to hearing theory about things like international fiat, multiactor fiat, etc.


Framework debates are ok but I rarely think they are a voting issue. I’m much more compelled that winning the “policy good” framework means you get to weigh your advantages/disadvantages against the criticism.

Topicality:

I believe in reasonable interpretations, meaning that competing interpretations are good, but any risk of offense in favor of your interpretation isn’t going to justify a neg ballot. You have to prove a pretty tangible impact with real implications for ground. Just saying ‘limits good’ isn’t going to cut it.

Counterplans:

They are good. You should have a tangible net benefit. Affs teams, remember to point out that presumption flips aff and sometimes the “any risk” calculus has no place in debate. 

Disads: 

They are good. Be sure to win uniqueness. Good impact defense can take the aff a long way. For politics Das issue specific uq typically trumps generic uq. You must compare link risks both ways.

Impact turning:

Always enjoyable.

Kritiks:

I know a lot about these I believe in very specific scenario building and refutation of affirmative eve, explaining why it isn’t an answer to the alt, etc. You HAVE TO PASS THE MAKE SENSE TEST. For affs, you can use your generic evidence to answer them, but you better have a great explanation/scenario for why your generic eve is applicable.

Look, you should do whatever is most comfortable for you in front of me, just make sure you debate well and understand your argument. I’ll listen to any argument (for now). Who knows, in a few years maybe I’ll hate anything that’s not an unconditional counterplan. If you win it, and it’s a good reason to vote, you’re golden. You can ask many any specific questions you want before the round
  