
  Debate Affiliation: I am a JV debater for Los Rios in Sacramento, CA. I compete in policy debate in the college circuit, but judge mainly LD in the high school circuit. 

Generally: I am all about the impacts in the round. Lets face it- they're usually going to be the most interesting thing about a debate round and it's a pretty big deal if an impact is dropped or mishandled. I love K arguments and can appreciate a good PTX argument. I'm always up for shenanigans so if you have them, feel free to try them. I wont drop you just because you try something "interesting", but will drop you if you can't handle it. What it all really boils down to is this: Debate is about being able to defend a point in any given situation. You can have all the awesome evidence in the world but if your arguments are thoughtful, interesting, or well put together than it's going to be hard to win a debate with me in the back of the room. You should be prepared to make analytics and explain everything to the fullest extent. Don't go seven off if you can't address all seven things fully, I'd much rather see you talk about one thing for an entire speech than talk about seven things for forty-five seconds each. I do understand and uphold the rules of our game, so regardless of my personal preferences, if you win by the rules of debate you win in my rounds. There is no clear set of rules but there are definitely customs so follow them. I judge how I would want to be judged, if that's any consolation.

LD Specifically: If there is an impact int he round, don't drop it. I know it's more unusual for their to be physical impacts in LD, but it's happened and they're usually a winning point because they go unaddressed. I will judge the round exactly in the way I am told to judge the round, which means it's YOUR job to tell me which way that's going to be. If you want me to uphold values above all else, that's where I'll look to first. I really enjoy being told stories and being addressed like a real human being, the way you might explain things to a complete stranger on the street and I usually distribute speaker points based on level-of-passion as well as speaking voice. Be confident, bold, and human. 

Policy Specifically: Dont' drop anything. Know your arguments. I don't like framework, but will value it in the round all the same. Don't do T if they're actually T. It will effect your speaker points because I think it's pretty annoying when people run it as a time suck. I usually value extinction over dehumanization unless you tell me to do otherwise.

Answers to Common Questions: Yes, I can flow you even if you spread (just slow wayyyy down and be wayyy clear for the tags and author, otherwise I might not flow you). No, I wont keep track of the time (I probably will but don't rely on it). No, I don't take time for flashing. Once you eject, you can stop your time. Yes, I always disclose and give feedback. I wont assign speaker points until AFTER I give feedback so your response to my response will matter. 
  