
  Daniel Goynatsky
Stuyvesant High School ('15)
University of Chicago ('19)
Coach at Walter Payton

I debated for 4 years in high school reaching multiple bid rounds and receiving multiple speaker awards at tournaments like Bronx, Harvard, Scranton, Lexington, University of Michigan, and Blake. I was a critical debater and most of my 2nrs were Anthro. I have a pretty good understanding of Foucault, Agamben, Wilderson, Fem IR, Anthro, Cap, Baudrillard. I do not have an understanding of Deleuze, Lacan, other weird shit. saying that, ive gone for politics before, process counterplans, and topicality. im more than familiar with these arguments and while i think that one form of debate is more fun than another, i am more than willing yo vote on a dropped PC key card.

I really like explanations :)
I will not pick you up if i dont know have a really solid link story (be it on a disad or a k). Impact analysis is also important but also impact framing is often missing. why should i weigh certain impacts over others?

i will sit through all arguments, and will vote on anything that isnt out right offensive (ex. "make us a sandwich CP", "rape good bc its key to rape whistle economy"). please dont do that. also keep violence and nudity to a minimum.

the only thing i might have a slightly higher threshhold of voting on is framework. if it is run well and creatively (westminster fg) and not in a literally fascist way, im more than willing to vote on it. if it is run in a very basic (usfg legislation within scope of the resolution) i will beSLIGHTLY more lenient towards critical affirmative arguments.

spreading is fine, open cross ex is fine, clipping cards is not fine, being an asshole is not fine. cheating of any kind will not be tolerated. you will get 23s and automatically lose(provided there is proof :)

flash ends when you save the doc, but if you are clearly doing some shady shit on your computer i will start the timer again and think less of you.

most importantly, have a good time. debate has taught me so much, gotten me into college, and allowed me to become friends with so many new people. i love this activity so go into rounds with an open mind and dont be ignorant.

email: suspiciousdg@gmail.com
hmu if you questions about the round or are in need of advice or just want to talk.
  