
  Kris Graham
Pottsboro High School 2017
Baylor University 2021

Overview:
Do what you do best. Just know that impacts are how you'll win debates for me. If you can impact an argument out, I'll listen to it. On the more traditional and obvious side, why do the impacts of the DA outweigh the impacts of the aff? But on less traditional arguments, why does your theory matter? How does letting the other team keep doing what they're doing impact the debate space? Etc. Both pre-fiat and post-fiat impacts need to be explained very well - I want you to paint me a picture of both worlds and explain why I vote for yours. Good impact calcs will boost your speaks and make you much more likely to win the round.
Please don't shadow extend. Tag (summary), author/date, warrant.
I don't time flash/email as long as you aren't stealing prep. I do ask that everyone stops prepping while a team is flashing. Don't steal prep or I'll drop your speaks.
I don't time roadmaps. Please give them. Don't say "I'm going straight down the flow."
Do not use offensive slang. Do not use derogatory terms. Do not misgender. Do not use your privilege to try and gain ground on another team. This will not be tolerated and will result in 0 speaks and if the other team makes it a voting issue, it could very well lose you the round.
Speed: I can follow along pretty well, but with that being said, slow down on the important stuff. I need to hear your tags and authors very clearly if you want them on the flow. I really really really appreciate teams that say "and" or "next" between their cards - it will boost your speaks. It'll boost them even more if you label your cards "a/b/c/d" "1/2/3/4" "first/second/third/fourth". You can read evidence quickly. SLOW DOWN ON THEORY AND TOPICALITY. Like, almost conversational speed. This will be covered more in their specific sections.
Affs: If you can win the argument that you don't need a plan text, cool. If you can win the argument that performance is better for the debate space, cool. If you don't want to talk about the resolution, cool. Just be able to prove that those things make a positive impact to the debate space (refer to the overview). 
Truth v Tech: I default tech over truth. If you drop something and the other team goes for it, they will win the argument. However, if a team runs something that is really, really out of the norm and you don't have anything on it, run theory about why arguments like that are bad. I'd rather you run theory than just drop an argument! Do what you need to do.
Disadvantages: I'm cool with generics as long as you can argue a link. Case specific DAs are sweet if you have them prepped out. Shotgun DAs if that is your thing. I really enjoy politics DAs but please update your uniqueness. If it’s old and your opponents point that out, I probably won't vote on the DA.
Counterplans: Sure. Run them if you want, just make sure you can prove it's competitive. Having to presume aff in counterplan debates is the worst. Just please know what you're doing if you run one. I like when teams have a 2NC overview explaining the way the CP functions in lay terms. Conditionality good/bad is up for debate and I don't have bias to either.
Kritiks: I understand the way they function, I have a general idea of what most of them are, but I do not have enough knowledge on every literature base to debate all of them myself. I have debated for and against kritiks and I am happy to vote for or against them, but be prepared to explain it as if I know nothing about it. Do not assume I know anything about your literature base. You are more than welcome to ask me about my knowledge of a specific K before the round starts and I will be more than happy to tell you my position with it.
Theory: I don't mind theory as long as you go s l o w. There is NOTHING I hate more than having to flow theory when someone is reading it at the same speed they read evidence. Read it as slow and clearly as you read tag lines. If you go fast I will do my best to flow it but you will get lower speaks and I will be annoyed. As the debate develops, you can probably speed up a little as long as you have done an adequate job covering your bases prior. You also need to explain to me why they are damaging your model of debate, why that is bad, and what it means for the community. That is the foundation for you to win the argument.
Topicality: If topicality is your "thing," go for it. I admire people who are super skilled at topicality debates, and *really* admire people who can make them interesting. Good T debates are really good, but bad T debates are reallllly bad. Don't run T as a timesuck. I will vote on RVIs. Again, in order to win T, I need your standards to very clearly paint a picture of what happens if I vote up an aff that is not topical and why that is bad for the debate space.
Case: I love case debate and think it is essential to win rounds. I'm cool with one off in the 1NC but you should probably put some case in the 2NC. I love ridiculous impact turns... as long as they aren't offensive (racism good, patriarchy good, etc). But that goes without saying.
Have fun in debates and don't feel obligated to be 100% serious the entire time. Being aggressive is okay, being disrespectful is not. 
Feel free to email me with any questions: krisbgraham99@gmail.com
Happy debating!
  