
  Background: I debated 2 years of parli/ld at college level. This will be my 3rd year coaching high school/college debate.

Overall: I believe that debate is a game- while educational you're probably looking at this to find the best way to debate in front of me and therefore pick up the ballot in the round. I'm willing to listen to most arguments, but all must have warrants to support the claims you're making (evidence/reasoning). I try to vote on the flow, and by that I mean when it's a clear round and the debaters are doing the work and don't leave me to do it. 

Speed: I'm okay with speed. If you get lightening fast I will call clear. If you have a problem with speed and feel excluded from the round then make an argument about it and give me a way to vote for u (run the speed k). With speed often comes a loss of clarity. If it's something important then maybe you should go slow and make sure I know it is or at least add emphasis.

Theory: I like listening to theory debates. I'm not opposed--just don't make claims about why things should happen in the way you want them to. Use warrants. It's often competing interpretations so make sure you give the reasons as to way your way is best.

Topicality: I love T. Please have interp, standards, violation, voters. I believe T is a check for opp to use. I won't be offended if you kick T ... especially if they meet. Since I believe debate is a game, then I have no problem with using T's strategically- if you're aff then learn quick responses you can get out efficiently. 

Evidence: It's a good thing. It aids in proving/supporting your arguments. Evidence over a claim wins almost every time. 

The K: I'm a fan of it if used the right way. If you have been playing too much xbox then maybe its time to start a da/cp and not use the generic k for everything. I like cap, okay with heg, and have a hard time listening to other k's. Make sure to have an alt that works. i'm okay with perming and kicking these arguements- if you think you're being abused in round then run a position telling me why that's bad.

Impact calculus: tell me why you're winning the round at the end of the day. I need a way to weigh the round/arguments within it. Are you winning on probability, time frame, magnitude???

I'm open to questions before the round, so don't be afraid to ask :)
  