
  Hello, my name is Alex Grajewski and I have debated for Arthur L. Johnson High School for three years. I currently coach Bodine High School (PA) and Carpe Diem (NJ). I am on the Rutgers New Brunswick Policy squad. (Updated 9/21/2010)

Short version: 

I will vote off anything, speed is fine, I ( REALLY) dislike theory.

Long version: 

Speed: Re-reading my own paradigm I've realized that although I can flow speed, my comprehension isn't that of a boy genius. If a debater chooses to spread seven minutes of Nietzsche, said debater must be prepared to clarify and explain to me the position so I understand/ vote for the position. Although slower rounds are certainly easier to judge, fast paced rounds tend to be more exciting if strategic forms of argumentations are utilized.

Speaker points: Speaker points are given out according to strategy and quality of arguments. If you get below a 25 from me, you either A) offended me, (which is really hard to do since I ran a case advocating systematically killing people), B) you are obviously unprepared or C) for rudeness, please keep your attitude to a minimum, for my sake. I average a 27, and here is my scale:

30 = A+ 
29.5 = A 
29 = A- 
28.5 = B+ 
28 = B 
27.5 = C+ 
27 = C
26.5 = D +
26= D
25.5 = Boderline
25 = F 


Theory: Just don't, UNLESS the abuse or (your interpretation) is extremely clear and this is game winning issue in your favor. I will not vote on potential abuse and at the most just drop their argument. Running theory for the sake of running theory = below 27. 

Weighing: I prefer that debaters weigh arguments and tell me what issues are/are not important in round. That being said, it is also helpful if you compare weighing analysis. Meaning if your opponent is trying to outweigh you on time frame, tell me why probability comes first. I leave it up to the debaters to tell me what kinds of weighing are important and should be evaluated first. Just because "x" people die as a result of voting a certain way doesn't mean I'll vote for you. As such, write my ballot for me, or else you may not like they way I compare your weighing if I am forced to intervene to some extent.

I am perfectly find with anything you want to run as long as the position you run is topical. I will NOT listen to aesthetics i.e. an "x" aesthetic.
  