
  I coach public forum at Eagan High School. I have previously coached speech/debate at Blaine High School and Moorhead High School.

During the day, I teach social studies at VOA High School in Minneapolis.


PF
Evidence should consist of direct quotes, not paraphrasing. This is not extemp.Cards should have warrants. Like paraphrased source cites, one-sentences cards do not provide supporting evidence of why your claim is trueIf you're going to run a framework, it should be more than one sentence long, clearly link to the resolution, and provide a means for weighing and impacting your arguments. Extend and warrant it in each speech; don't just read it in your constructive and randomly bring it up again in the final focus.Signpost and tell me where you are on the flow. Refer to arguments by their card name and which contention/subpoint they are in. Make it easy for me to follow which arguments you're referencing and I'll be much more likely to vote on them.I believe the 2nd rebuttal has a responsibility to cover both flows, or at least the major arguments the 1st rebuttal made on their case (especially turns).Summaries should crystallize the round. Focus on a few main issues. Don't just do line-by-line.Final focuses should respond to what happened in the summaries and grand crossfire. Don't just repeat exactly what the summaries said.

LD
General info:
-Signpost every response you make in rebuttal. Number your responses when applicable. This will make the flow more organized for you and for me.
-Don't extend framework and contentions without responding to your opponent's refutation first.
-Impact arguments back to a framework.
-Proper extensions include a warrant and impact, not just the tag or author.
-Your cards should have warrants. One-sentence cards do not make for well-developed arguments.

Theory:
I've only seen a couple rounds total where I thought the level of abuse from a debater truly justified theory. Don't run theory as just another argument; I prefer that you debate the resolution.

Kritiks:
I like critical or otherwise outside-the-box arguments. I don't like complex arguments that are incoherently watered-down and/or obviously cut by a coach. I'd prefer to see on-case critical arguments developed within the context of the resolution.


Miscellaneous
Decorum:
Don't be a jerk during cross-x or your speaks will suffer. Give your opponents time to answer your questions and ask you questions, too. This is particularly important for men, who, according to a wealth of research, are more likely to speak aggresively, interrupt others, etc.

Disclosure:
I will provide oral feedback if all debaters want me to. I welcome constructive questions from you during that time. I will probably not disclose unless we're at a circuit tournament.

Questions:
Feel free to ask me questions before the round! I prefer specific questions over "What's your paradigm?"
  