
  Education
 Juris Doctor, 2014, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, New York, New York
Concentrations in Constitutional Law & Rights, General Litigation, and Criminal Law & ProcedureBachelor of Arts cum laude, 2011 Florida Atlantic University, Harriet L. Wilkes Honors College, Jupiter, Florida
Concentrations in Law & Society and SpanishHigh School & International Baccalaureate Diplomas, Eastside High School, Gainesville, FloridaDebate Background
 Law School
 Competitions Editor (2013-2014), Moot Court Honor Society (2012-2014), Benjamin N. Cardozo School of LawMoot Court
 Quarterfinalist and Second Place Brief, Jerome Prince Memorial Evidence Competition, Brooklyn Law School, Brooklyn, New York, March 2014Second Place, Appellate Lawyers Association National Moot Court Competition, Chicago, Illinois, November 2013Second Place and Second Place Oralist, Appellate Lawyers Association National Moot Court Competition, Chicago, Illinois, November 2012College
 Founder and President (2007-2011), Debate Team, Florida Atlantic University, Harriet L. Wilkes Honors CollegeParliamentary Debate
 Semifinalist and Runner-Up Speaker, Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association State Championship, University of Florida, Gainesville, February 2011Champion and Champion Speaker, Marks Invitational, University of West Florida, Pensacola, January 2011Champion and 5th Place Speaker, Star Invitational, Florida State College at Jacksonville, November 2010Runner-Up Speaker, Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association State Championship, Florida Atlantic University, Jupiter, February 2010Semifinalist and Champion Speaker, Marks Invitational, University of West Florida, Pensacola, January 2010State Champion and Runner-Up Speaker, Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association State Championship, Florida Southern College, Lakeland, February 2009Octafinalist and National Champion Speaker, Novice National Championship, University of West Florida, Pensacola, March 2008Runner-Up and Runner-Up Speaker, DSR-TKA National Championship, University of Florida, Gainesville, March 2008Runner-Up Speaker, Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association State Championship, Florida State University, Tallahassee, February 2008Runner-Up Speaker, Star Invitational, Florida Community College at Jacksonville, November 2007NFA Lincoln-Douglas Debate (not the same as high school L-D!)
 Champion and Champion Speaker, Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association State Championship, University of Florida, Gainesville, February 2011Champion and Champion Speaker, Star Invitational, Florida State College at Jacksonville, November 2010Champion, Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association State Championship, Florida Atlantic University, Jupiter, February 2010Champion and Champion Speaker, Florida Intercollegiate Forensics Association State Championship, Florida Southern College, Lakeland, February 2009High School
 Captain (2006-2007), Webmaster (2005-2007), PowerPoint Producer (2004-2006), Forensics (Speech & Debate) Team, Eastside High SchoolStudent Congress (selected)
 Finalist, National Catholic Forensic League Grand National Championship, Houston, May 2007Fifth Place, Florida Forensic League Varsity State Championship, Niceville High School, Niceville, March 2007Second Place, Crestian Classic, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, January 2007Seventh Place and Best Preliminary Presiding Officer, Florida Blue Key Speech & Debate Tournament, University of Florida, Gainesville, October 2006Fourth Place, Winter Springs Invitational, Winter Springs, Florida, September 2006Semifinalist, Florida Forensic League Varsity State Championship, Western High School, Davie, March 2006General Judging Philosophy
 Speed: I'm usually okay with speed, so I'm okay with you spreading, but you need to articulate. I will yell, "Clear!" as necessary, but not repeatedly.Flowing: I have no problem with this, but it would be helpful if you emphasized your tag lines so that I can clearly delineate your arguments. Also, I like it if you pause between the end of your card and the beginning of your own analysis so that I know where your source's words end and yours begin.Topicality: I will accept topicality arguments only if there's (1) clear abuse established and (2) it's presented as a clear RFD in the 2NR.Kritiks: I hate kritiks. Please don't run them.Research Burden: I despise the argument that, because it's hard to do research, you shouldn't be expected to be prepared on the AFF case. It's a waste of my time and your opponent's. ​You will lose if you seriously push this argument.​Rebuttals: The 2NR and 2AR need to have clearly delineated voting issues.Off-Case/Disadvantages: These are fine only if they are presented clearly and are related directly to the topic and/or AFF case; I will not necessarily accept them as prima facie voters.Jargon: Shouldn't be an issue, but it might behoove you to lay our your argument with as little as possible.Cross-Ex: Please use cross-examination time to set yourself up for arguments in future speeches, and not to make stump speeches of your own. Please also avoid using prep time before cross-examination. I will not penalize you for failing to do these things, but you will make me much happier if you do.Policy Debate Judging Philosophy
 Off-Case/Disadvantages: These are fine only if they are presented clearly and are related directly to the topic and/or AFF case; I will not necessarily accept them as prima facie voters.Criteria: Stock issues. The AFF needs to identify: (1) inherency, or, that a problem exists in the status quo; (2) significance, or, that the problem inherent in the status quo warrants action by the United States federal government; (3) solvency, or, that the proposed plan solves the significantly inherent problem; and, (4) desirability, or, that the proposed plan is the most desirable means of solving the significantly inherent problem. The NEG may attack any and/or all of these, but need only win one in order to win the round.L-D Judging Philosophy
 Criteria: Framework. The AFF needs to define key terms in the resolution and have a clearly established, well-warranted framework, with contentions that advance that framework, in order to win. If the AFF shows that its framework best encapsulates the issues implicated by the resolution - more so than the NEG's counter-value - then the AFF wins the debate.PF Judging Philosophy
 I was around when Public Forum was first invented, and perhaps it is for that reason that I consider myself an "old school" PF judge. I don't even feel like I should have to spell out a PF judging philosophy.

I frown on the use of a Policy/LD style framework in PF cases. Ultimately, my PF judging philosophy is similar to the question that the NFL proposes that judges use in evaluating PF rounds: "If I had no prior beliefs about this resolution, would the round as a whole have made me more likely to believe the resolution was true or not true?" Historically, I have found that the answer to that question typically rests on one argument that is primarily contested throughout the debate.

Basically, treat the round as PF was intended: communicate your arguments in a manner persuasive to the non-specialist or "citizen judge," i.e. a member of an American jury. If you think that you could persuade a lay judge with your case, then you'll persuade me.
  