
  Yo, I’m Mylan Gray. I am one year out, and spent a decent amount of time on the high school national circuit and college. I’m Black. If that makes you reluctant to pref me, check yourself. Seriously. Run whatever you want, however you want. My ear might be a little untrained for unclear spreading, but otherwise I should be good. I’ll let you know if it’s too fast. Slow down on tags. Slow down on authors. Slow down on key warrants. 
I love K’s. Do not run them because I like them though. Run your own game in your own lane. Any type of K is fine. Avoid being problematic about theorizing what is best for marginalized communities if you are not from them. Do not be offensive. I will NOT vote for explicitly discriminatory and offensive positions. I still think that debate is an education activity and what you say says something about our community and the norms we create and allow to form within it. Don't be sexist, homophobic, racist, etc., and you should be fine. 
I also love a good T debate especially if it is well flushed out. I love a good theory debate too, if it is flushed out. Nothing is beyond me voting on if it is well warranted. I will not vote on a floating PIC, UNLESS you spend time on it. A one line argument at the end of your speech that you blow up later will not give you the ballot. YOU GOTTA PUT WERK IN. I will note it though and give some sway. 
Weigh everything, tell me how I should evaluate the round. I don’t have a default framework. However, if you give me none, I will simply evaluate both sides equally on each contesting level. I know I’ve said I love a lot of stuff, but I REALLY love performance args. That being said, if it is terrible, it is terrible and I will pull the trigger on T if they fairly won it. I also like PETTINESS and HUMOR. I’m human. I like to see people put in work. If you don’t make it a boring round, you’ll see some speaker points. I promise you. (*DJ Khaled voice*) Keep me awake and entertained with substantive arguments and I will keep you happy with them awards. 
All this being said, I am here to help you have the debate you want to have. Do you. If you confused though, check SunHee Simon’s paradigm. That will kinda help you answer any unsure questions concerning how I feel about LD specifically. That’s the homie.
  