
  
Dustin Greenwalt
Baylor Uniersity

Experience: First year out. Expended my eligibility at Wayne State University.

General Stuff: I find well warranted and evidenced arguments to be
the most persuasive. This is not to say that you need evidence to make
a winning argument,sometimes a well developed warrant or example is
enough, however you should be aware that the amount of time and energy
you spend on an argument (including the time you take to read evidence
if needed) has a direct correlation with the credibility I will give
that argument.

Also, keep in mind that debate is still at its heart a communication
activity- as such, the propensity for speed should not overtake your
ability to clearly enunciate your words. At some point the extra card
or two that you read while being unclear probably isn't worth the hit
to your speaker points.

Offense/Defense seems inevitable in a lot of situations. While strict
adherence to this methodology seems improper given that many debates
are do not fall under "a lot of situations" as such, if you want me to
vote on defense you should explain why it completely decimates any
risk of the DA.

Finally, I flow straight down, so attempt to keep things in order- if
you need to move the permutation or other large debate to the bottom
or elsewhere, then do it. Otherwise, you can signpost by saying
phrases like "the link debate" and everything'll be good.

Specific Arguments:
Topicality/Spec.- Topicality is probably a voting issue- if you want
to change this then you have to clearly outline offensive reasons why
this is not so. Specification arguments are usually inane however
they do serve a strategic purpose from time to time, especially if you
ask for it in cross-x and they don't specify.

Counter plans/Disads: are good, especially when used in strategic
combinations. I think affirmatives shouldn't allow the negative to run
time-frame counter-plans or other abusive strategies however, if you
are negative and think you can defend it, then go for it.

Critiques- I find criticisms to be an effective strategy in negating
the affirmative. In order to do so I think the negative should focus
on articulating links to the plan or explaining why the plan doesn't
matter and some other methodological or representational question is
more important. Often, alternatives claim to have some form of action
which is easily permeable by the affirmative, I am skeptical of the
ability of alternatives to solve the Affirmative and as such these
sorts of alternatives just produce competition issues for the
negative.

Critical Affirmatives/performance: I find that teams often fail to
explain why their alternative framework is desirable, especially in
the context of normal "debate speak." You need to effectively explain
how your proposed framework clashes with the negative and how it
produces a better activity/changes the standards by which we judge
what we consider a "better activity." Otherwise, explain why the
affirmative subsumes/outweighs your opponents arguments.
  