
  I debated for the University of Georgia for three years and Chattahoochee for three years. I have been involved with highschool coaching/judging since I was able to judge novice debates my junior year of highschool. I am writing this for the alt energy TOC, to this point i've judged about 80 rounds this year, my average each year for the past three years is probably somewhere around 70 rounds (apparently when your team does better they punish you by making you judge more debates, people these days). I actively try to avoid doing work for EITHER team, with the exception of protecting the 2nr against arguments that are very new. As you may fear I don't have any particular prefences, I want you to do what you do best. I am well versed in critical lit, although i have a personal distaste for the capitalism debate and for most args steming from zizek. That being said don't take me as a K hack. I am well acquainted with policy lit and args as well (as the schools i've attended should demonstrate). I lean neg on most theory but it's certainly not an impossible battle. I am about as neutral as can be with arguments some refer to as cheating cp's (consult, condition, etc.) I think that it is usually wise on these debates to go for theory as a perm justification rather than a voting issue, but hey, if you want to go for theory as a voter or a reason to reject the argument who am I to tell you otherwise. (refer to my policy of non-interventionism above) The way to win debates in front of me is to frame the second rebuttal. i.e." our impact is fastest and you should prefer timeframe because ...." or "they concede no value to life which means even if they win their impacts it doesn't matter because...." My speaker points aren't very high on average, though I have been known to reward good speeches. My average scale runs between 27 and 29.5 at national level tournaments, with the majority of points being in the 27.5-28, though i did give out the first 30 i've ever given this year, so who knows, maybe I'm getting compassionate as I age, though I wouldn't count on it. I don't have much else to say frankly, though i'll gladly answer whatever questions you may have as long as it's not the question "do you have any preferences"
  