
  BACKGROUND:
I’ve done a little bit of parli debate and IE events at SF State, but most of my experience is in policy debate. I currently debate at Open level on the SFSU policy team.

I try to judge as unbiased as possible and vote for the stronger arguments presented in the round. However that being said, I won’t do any analysis for you, explain, explain, explain. Run whatever you want, but thorough explanation and a clear understanding are important. I’m very expressive, but just because I’m rolling my eyes at your T, doesn’t mean I won’t vote for you if you actually win on T. DO WHAT YOU’RE GOOD AT AND COMFORTABLE WITH. That being said:

THEORY/T - Uggggggh. Not my favorite. At all. Needs to be a PRETTY abusive aff and well constructed and warranted Theory/T for me to vote on it. Also, if that’s your only response to the arguments, it’s extremely unlikely I’ll give you the ballot.

SPEED - I’m okay with it, but clarity is so, so, SO important. I definitely prefer less cards, and more clarity than more cards, and hella spreading. My partner and I actually currently run spreading critiques, SO, if you want high speaks, unless you're super, super good at being clear...don't do it. I aim for the least amount of judge intervention as possible, however I will say clear or slow if needed. If I don’t hear it, I’m not flowing it. My non verbals will be clear. 

K - Love em. Am a K debater and certainly favor them, HOWEVER if they are not/poorly explained, they’re useless. I have read a decent amount of literature on many of the most common K areas/authors (Foucault, Wilderson, Zizek, Cap, Queer, Fem) but just because I love critical arguments and have a good grasp on most, doesn’t mean I know yours, nor will just give you the ballot. Simply for running critical arguments without explanation or application will not give you the ballot. Also if you're white and running Wilderson, and they call you out on why it's problematic, I'll 99.99% give them the ballot.

PERFORMANCE - Love it as well, huge performance theory nerd and run performance arguments myself, but like K’s, must be purposeful and not just to run one. 

FRAMEWORK - Ugh, like theory/T, run at your own risk.

SPEAKER POINTS - I’m pretty generous, especially if you make me laugh, but if you say something that offends me aka anything racist/sexist/homophobic/transphobic/inexcusably abusive I’ll give you a 0 real quick. 

Have fun, don’t be rude, email/flash me cards if you want me to read them, EXTEND YOUR ARGUMENTS, USE WARRANTS AND IMPACTS, TELL ME WHY TO GIVE YOU THE BALLOT!

Good luck! 
  