
  I debated three years at St. Vincent de Paul High School. I go to California Polytechnic State University, but I am not a part of the debate team.

Be Nice, Be Funny, Have Fun.

Overall: I was a 2A. For the most part I ran critical affirmatives but they weren’t Deluze and Guatarri. Don't know a lot about the resolution, so you can totally shape how I view the resolution. But, don’t leave me in the dust; you’re going to have to do some extra explaining. I am not a judge that will do any work for you. Explain every link, impact, interpretation, ect.

Speed: It’s cool with me, but keep in mind I haven’t debated in a while. I’m not a perfect flow either; so don’t go Ricky Bobby status on taglines. Be clear.

Kritiks: I was introduced to Kritiks early on in my debate career and I like them a lot. I’m not a “K hack”, but all my friends were. All my affirmatives were k-affs and my 1NCs were always kritik heavy. My 1NRs were not k-heavy. Don’t assume I’ve read of bunch of K literature. Explain you’re argument and explain your link. Don’t hide behind big words and power tags. Will vote on a K, but you must explain it clearly throughout the debate.

Framework: I don't believe fw should be the go-to strategy against K-Affs.By all means, include it in the 1NC to figure out ground and the boundaries of the aff. If the aff is abusive and you honestly think it should be excluded from the debate space, go for it. Paint the picture of a world of your Framework and which affirmatives should be included/ excluded.

Case: I think people completely undervalue the case debate. Spend more time on this, it'll help both sides in cross applications onto off-case arguments. Case clash is rad, Case Turns are also cool cool.

Disads/Counterplans: Run them, but be clear. They get super technical and so make sure you explain everything, don’t assume I know what’s going on in the world. Make sure they apply to the aff and you have good evidence. Don’t forget the perm. I'm open to all Counterplans and Disads.

Topicality: It’s my jim-jam. My favorite 1NR’s were 5 minutes of T. This can be helpful in policy and kritikal debates.. I default to counter interpretations so make sure your interpretation is damn good if you decide to go for it. More importantly, prove that the other team's interpretation is worse. What would the resolution look like under their interpretation compared to yours? Make sure to explain the impacts.

Theory: Read it when applicable, but don’t be crazy. I’m up for all theory arguments. If the argument is farfetched I’m probably not going to vote for it. But if someone is running a bunch of conditional advocacies, you should run condo. Edit you’re blocks for the round, otherwise my flow just becomes a cluster of irrelevant arguments.

That's all folks- email me if you have any questions: sydneygriggsz@gmail.com.
  