
  Hey there! My name's Max
Feel free to email me any questions; I'll get back to you pretty quickly and with plenty of usually genuine enthusiasm: Maxgroznik@gmail.com

This is my 6th year in competitive debate; I debated for three years in high school and I'm currently competing in the third year of debate in college.


Quick Pref tip: I'm probably a 2-3 on a 1-5 and strike scale.

The thoughts you'll probably control f for:


Framework: I generally think the aff should be ostensibly within the direction or scope of the resolution. I will vote on a Framework shell if it isn't answered but have no strong predilection either way. I think framework is an appropriate response to any aff that doesn't meet the interpretation but I don't always think it is an appropriate strategy.

Identity debate: These debates often become messy and hard for me to evaluate; as a general rule of thumb I become uncomfortable when asked to weigh different forms of oppression against each other. I like to vote on Link turns and Aff/Alt solves the K/Aff styled arguments more on "X Oppression outweighs Y Oppression". That being said, should you decide that an affectual response to your argument is important, making me uncomfortable may very well be in your best interest.

General debate space thoughts: This round is your round. This space is your space. I am a spectator with the limited ability to effect the round by rendering a decision. Make the strategic choices that you want to make and debate in ways that make you feel comfortable. My personal thoughts on debate are real and they exist, but I will do my best to evaluate the round in accordance with the arguments that are presented. I do my best to keep a tight flow and will very rarely deviate from it (blatantly and indefensibly problematic behavior and rhetoric will make me deviate from my flow and assign a loss, don't be a horrible person). If you have any questions or concerns feel free to contact me.



The general and boring thoughts:


Traditional debate: I like it. I'm probably at heart a Heg and FW debater despite the fact that deep down I generally believe that both United States Hegemony and Framework are bad despite the very real strategic viability they have in debate rounds. I will feel the most comfortable judging a traditional debate. I haven't seen very many of these in the past three years I've been judging and it makes me sad. Please whip out your cheaty pics and tiny DA's to the aff or your massive politics file. Advantage CP's and Impact turns are an underutilized strat that I'd love to vote on.

The Critical Debate: I'm up on a decent amount of K lit and am comfortable with a majority of arguments generally deployed in debate rounds; if Irigaray or Berlant is your go to, read it. If you're more of a Bataille team, read that too. I may not be able to give as expansive feedback as I'd like if I'm wading through an expansive amount of abstruse K literature but I'll still follow the technical component of the debate well enough to render a cogent decision. Taking the time to explain the specific mechanism of the alternative and contextualizing it very specifically to the Aff/the status quo/whatever you feel like contextualizing it to will be important.

Theory Debate: I enjoy well executed theory debates; go beyond your blocks and explain standard interaction and how they operate within the scope of the interpretations. Interpretations should be precise and contextual. Theory is an underutilized tool to level the playing field in rounds where teams are objectively behind on other aspects of the debate in my opinion.

Speed: Please. In all honesty in slower rounds I often struggle to pay attention and flow on auto-pilot. I will keep a tighter flow if the round is faster.

email chain: I'd love to be on it.

Evidence practices: don't clip cards, don't fabricate evidence. If you call the other team on shady behavior I'll need some form of quantifiable proof to feel comfortable punishing the other team. A sneaking suspicion isn't sufficient for me to tank a teams speaks and give them the L.

Civility: Debate is a competitive and sometimes aggressive activity. Don't utilize your social location to become more domineering than necessary; respect the space and take every effort available to you to make it inclusive.
  