
  Experience: I debated for four years at Bingham High School in South Jordan, UT. I debated LD all four years. I cleared to a few BID rounds, but debated consistently on the circuit all four years.

Summary: My debate style was strictly progressive which is what I am used to. That doesn't mean that I don't like to watch a more traditional round. I have no bias when it comes to style. My final year in debate I really focused on framework which tends to turn into a more traditional debate just because of the nature of the discussion. Basically I don't care what style you decided to use it won't change the ballot.

Framework: Weighing mechanism for the debate to function through. Like I said above I absolutely love the framework debate. I will not vote on arguments if there is nothing to weight it through. If you lose the framework you lose the round. (majority of the time)

Kritiks: I don't really like K's. I never ran them as a debater but that doesn't mean I won't vote for them. I do think they have a purpose and can be used very well but if you don't know how to run it please please please don't do it.

Theory/T: When it comes to theory or topicality I am pretty experienced. Theory is usually ran as a sketchy argument to mess up your opponent. If that happens I am instantly docking your speaks. Theory is actually extremely important when it comes to the debate round. If there is actual abuse then I would love to see a theory argument, along with that I am much more likely to reject the argument. I don't think I have ever voted on a reject the debater. Topicality can also be used in a good way but I haven't ever voted on it. There are definitely times when it is necessary but I don't think it ever a voter in the round, but feel free to prove me wrong.

Speed: I am fine with speed but FYI I have been out of debate for three years so please be clear with taglines and any other important headlines. I will say clear once but I will just dock speaker points if nothing changes.

Extensions: Please extend something. I won't do it for you.

Random Things:
Be respectful of your opponent.Flex prep is fine.Bring your own timer. I don't want to time you.
Ask me questions if you have them :)
  