
  UPDATE: Topic knowledge for the 2016-17 season is very limited meaning; tell me what acronyms mean, explain things relevant to china's current events if mentioned ect.

Experience: 4yrs of high school, mostly in the UDL, but I went to a decent amount of national tournaments. Went to camp every summer.

Run whatever your best at running. No biases that I may have about certain arguments will effect my decision. I will vote for whatever team gives me the best reason to vote for them no matter how absurd the argument may be. The following comments more so to give you an idea of how to make the debate easier for me to evaluate, enjoyable for me and possibly boost your speaks.

I know a lot about debate, but that doesn't mean some things won't go over my head. You will probably be able to tell if I don't understand something through facial expressions, but for safety, If you think I would be confused by something, explain it clearly and thoroughly.

I don't have any major biases towards arguments. I prefer strategic choices in terms of arguments to read, but your are probably best off reading whatever you think you can win on. I won't drop you because I don't like the 1AC or 1NC. Link specificity is really important for me. It isn't essential for it to be carded but some analysis needs to be done there. 

I will only evaluate things that are said in the round, so if you say "extend "x" evidence" without saying what claim "x" evidence makes , your argument will mean very little to me. Also, I love warrants. I prefer you answer args with warrants in previously read evidence instead of more evidence. It makes me happy. If there is a ton of evidence read, chances are I'll have to call for something and I hate doing that so just avoid reading new evidence unless it's necessary. 

In terms of speed, if by any chance I'm judging you and flowing on a computer, you may wan't to either be clearer, slow down, make a big deal out of things you want me to make a big deal out of, or a combination of all the previous stated. However if I'm flowing on paper, which I usually will be, go as fast as you'd like while maintaining clarity.

I'm tabula rasa when it comes to arguments but for specifics:

Topicality: I was a T hack in highschool. Debating this well makes me happy. I default to competing interps but can be persuaded toward reasonability if debated well. Also education and fairness aren't impacts, you need to explain why I should care about a loss of education or fairness if you go for T.

Dis-Advantages: They're fine. I think timeframe is the most important part of impact calc to win but can be persuaded otherwise. Link specificity is important as well.

Counterplan: CP abuse isn't set in stone, please do not kick out of a CP because they put theory on it. If you provide a reason on why the CP is even 0.01% better than the plan or perm, I'll vote on it. Also perm abuse is not set in stone. I will be angry if you don't go for the perm because there is theory on it.

Kritik: I'm pretty well versed. Went for them all the time I have a lot of thoughts about K's so it's probably best to ask me specific questions before the round.

Non-Traditional stoof: Same with K's. I need a reason to vote for you, otherwise you're good.

Theory, I love it, but please do not go super fast on theory because I won't get everything. I default to rejecting the team if not told otherwise with warrants. Please don't try to avoid theory debating by kicking out of things with theory on them.

Some ways to boost your speaks: GOOD DECISIONS, jokes, being interesting, not being an asshole

I don't follow who wins usually so I'm not going to pick you up or drop you because you win or lose a lot.
  