
  Jinny Guo
Past: Iowa City West High, Graduated 2012.

I debated Policy in high school for 4 years.

General:
I prefer debates that focus on the topic at hand. Arguments that have little ties to the policy or affirmative plan are not appealing to me unless you are able to establish a solid reason why I should listen to them.
Logic wins in my opinion-it doesn't matter what evidence you have, if you can't convince me that "vaporizing the moon" is a logical move to make, don't make it in the first place.
I don't mind analytical arguments as long as they make sense and supplements the arguments you are making.
I like it when you are able to really "tell a story" with your arguments. Tell me exactly what you mean, and don't make it so I have to guess where you're going.
The last rebuttals are very important in my opinion-I will base most of my final decisions on what you decide to go for in the end. Tell me what you want me to vote on, and tell me why I should vote for you.

Kritiks:
I am generally not a big fan of K's. In most cases when I've judged debates where it has been brought up, the arguments always seemed a bit far-fetched in my opinion, and I prefer to stick to the stock issues.

Counterplans, Disads:
I like hearing Counterplans and Disads. In my opinion, these are some very logical arguments you can make to bolster your negative strength. Show me how they can knock out the Aff's plan.

Theory:
Make sure you make clear your interpretation and how you'll be defending it. Use it to your advantage-tell me clearly how you'll apply it. I am not opposed to Theory debates-if you can make them understandable and applicable to the plan, that's perfectly ok.

Topicality:
I will only consider voting on this if the Neg devotes the full 2NR to it.

Other:
Tag team cross-x is fine, as long as you're overpowering your partner.
On case debate is VERY important to me. If the Aff is able to explain why they solve, I will almost always vote for that if the Neg is unable to combat it. Alternatively, if the Neg is able to show me why the Aff does not solve and the Aff is unable to answer sufficiently, I will almost always vote Neg.
I normally assign 27-28 speaker points. If you impress me, I will assign 29.
  