
  Speech:
It's pretty straightforward. Articulate clearly, don't use filler words, be witty, and be better than your competitors. :)

Past Experience: I have judged LD for about 30 rounds. In addition, I started judging Parli and Speech last year, with about 10 rounds judging in each field.

Paradigm:

General: I am what my son calls a "lay judge." My main focus is in communication ability, ESPECIALLY since this is Parliamentary debate. However, I tend to be generous with Speaks (if you get below 28, you must have REALLY done something to get on my nerves, like being rude).

Theory, K's, (Counter)Plans: Don't even bother trying to run "lay theory" while I am your judge. Theory/K's are a waste of debate time, and I would rather have solid refutation than mere complaints. That's not going to get you a win anytime soon. As for Plans, in a Policy resolution, you better have it well laid out for me, with EXACTLY what you want to achieve along with HOW you will accomplish your goal.

Satire: Funny. Don't expect me to understand it.

Spreading: If you speak quickly and communicate your ideas effectively, you will be fine. Try not to go above 275 wpm, though. At that point I can't keep up.

Weighing: Look, if you are going to pay over $50 to come to a tournament, the least I can expect you do is weigh your arguments against theirs. Don't forget to connect every argument you have to the weighing mechanism in question.

Arguments: I am not going to understand arguments that require comprehending a huge number of links (I don't even know what that means; my son told me that I should write that, though.). Make it simple and to the point and you will have me rooting for you to win.

General Knowledge: It's really interesting when debaters connect a topic to a current event, as it crystallizes the argument for me a little more. Of course, I understand that there are some topics that just can't have that happen. However, if you can, kudos to you :).

Etiquette: I don't need your "thank you for coming" and "we appreciate you being here." I appreciate it, but it is not helping you to win/gain Speaks.

TL;DR: I am a lay judge, and don't run anything a common man wouldn't understand. Most importantly, SPEAK CLEARLY. I give the ballot to the person who speaks the most effectively.
  