
  I debated for Westlake High school in Policy, PF, LD and Extemp. I ran mostly K strats in Policy and LD and in PF did whatever the hell PF'ers do.
I don't judge frequently because I'm trying to become an engineer and apparently that's hard or something. Don't assume I know all of the normal strats for this topic, explain it like I've never heard it before.

This is your debate so you can run whatever you want and honestly it shows when you try to cater your strats to me. Just go out there and have fun and I'll do my best to judge the round you put before me. As long as you explain things clearly you can run whatever you love to run. 

That being said I know all of you really care about doing well so let me let you in on some secrets to helping me judge well:
Don't be a jerk in CX, don't steal prep, flash before speech time, My flow is my bible, and I won't call for cards unless you tell me to. If I call for cards and you don't tell me to, I'll make my decision before I read the card, in that instance I'm just curious.
In policy:
If you're going to run T/Framework/Theory please slow down. If I can't flow what you're saying and you lose that isn't because I'm a bad judge it's because you can't read analytics at 220 words per minute and expect me to understand the "nuance" of your argument.
If you're going to run a K, you better fully explain the alternative or make it clear in the block you're going for the k under a different strat. I'm extremely sympathetic to alt fails strats when I don't believe the neg knows how the alternative functions.
If you're running normal policy things, cool I'll try to keep up. I love learning new things.

In LD:
I could be called a policy judge depending on how you define it. I've judged LD before at TOC qualifiers but I didn't compete in it much in high school. This means I don't have the same understanding of the conventional framework of LD or the jargon. I am a judge much more likely to let sketchy shit go that reminds me of Policy but that's why if something shouldn't be allowed you need to tell me why. Really I don't have a conventional understanding of what the LD debate should be like until you tell me.
If you're running theory take time to make it clear to me what you're saying. Policy theory is SO different it might as well be Russian. A well developed theory shell is something I can grasp at. I make mistakes in my adjudication when I don't understand what you mean.

Otherwise explain yourself fully and you'll be fine.
  