
  EXPERIENCE: 
I have six children, have a master's degree, read widely, and enjoy current events. In high school, I did one year of policy and one year of LD and several individual events 20 years ago, such as oratory, humorous interpretation, extemp, and dramatic interpretation. I love debate when it helps you see the strong points of both sides of an issue, and you are able to recognize that most problems have pros and cons of both sides. I'm also fascinated by current events and enjoy the debate topics.


THE GENERAL PARADIGM:
I want to see that you're thinking about both your case and your opponents case, and that you can point out the most important aspects of their case and your case. I will flow and watch for you answering your opponents arguments and advancing your own. I want to see that you recognize that some arguments are more important than others and that you can identify the most crucial parts of both cases. You can demonstrate your recognition for what matters by how you spend your time and which issues you highlight in cross-examination and follow-up speeches.

Both logic and evidence should support your arguments. I tend to ignore or dismiss extremist statements that don't make sense, or have no solid evidence.

Finally, be respectful. I have no patience for rudeness, yelling, or ad hominem attacks. 

PROGRESSIVE ARGUMENTS:
I prefer debates about the topic, supported by evidence, and some explanation in your own words and understanding about what matters in your case. A kritik or other philosophy should have a solid connection to the actual topic and not used as a way to avoid preparing evidence and to avoid debating the real topic. 

SPEED:
I can handle moderate speed, but diction needs to be good, and I'll follow best if you state your outline markers clearly. As long as I'm madly taking notes, I'm following, and I'll signal clearly if I can't understand you at all. Speed is not a substitute for being able to highlight and explain what matters about your arguments and your opponents arguments. 
  