
  I am a sophomore at Houston Baptist who went to Keller HS, where I debated locally for 4 years in LD. Other than maybe two tournaments (Grapevine and Colleyville) a year in high school, I have little to no nat circuit experience, though I am familiar with some of the norms after going to TDC before my senior year of high school (and shamelessly watching rounds on youtube, of course).

General
--Speed is fine. Try to not spread tags and analytics. That would be nice.
--Disclosure is good. I know wikis are not a norm on the local circuit, but at least flash, email, or give paper copies. Something. Also, don't run disclosure theory on someone that is obviously less experienced.
--I am cool with just about any argument. Just explain yourself well and don't run anything with the intent to offend someone.

Framework
Cool! Run it. I don't have a preference for any particular format (V/C, critical aff, etc.), just explain phil well, especially if you're running something obscure. (SN: I have yet to read up on Wilderson, though I think I generally understand what he's saying. Sorta. Just thought I would throw that out there).

Policy
Cool! Run it. You won't lose on the "LD is a values debate so no policy" argument. You may freely larp.

K's
Cool! Run them. I have a decent grasp of K lit, but since this is usually where some really dense arguments are being made, really try and be intent on clarifying the literature. Don't just come in and--WILDERSON10UNFLINCHINGPARADIGMATICANALYSISDOVERTHROWPOLITICALAGENDAOEFJWELK;FMEOF;JWE;IOFJWEFW.

Theory/T
Run this if you there if you have a legitimate argument for abuse. I wasn't the best tech debater, but I don't want to hold anyone back from trying to run these arguments because they are necessary to prevent abuse. Again, I really wasn't a good tech debater, I may not be able to evaluate theory well (though I'll do my best). With that being said, as long as you explain yourself well, you'll be fine. I default competing interps. Give me some kind of action if you win the theory debate. If you need further clarification on this, ask me before round.

Speaker Points
As unhelpful as this sounds, speaks will be given based on how well you debated and how you act in round. Run fun arguments, have good in-round strategy, be nice, and have fun!.
  