
  I've been the coach of the Mahtomedi Debate Team for the past four years, and we compete in exclusively in LD debate.

Theory: not a big fan, but if it's appropriate, I'll listen. I don't think using theory is an offensive tactic; I simply see it as a way to protect yourself from blatant abuse from your opponent.

Criteria/Standards: I see this as the utmost important part of the debate. You need to clearly display how your case impacts your standard/criteria, and if you can, how you can also link into your opponent's! Make sure the link from your contention level arguments is CLEAR so that I can put that directly onto my flow. If you don't do this, I will need to make assumptions about what you're saying...and this is not ok.

Speed: This is a public speaking event-- I don't understand why debaters feel the need to cram as much "stuff" into their arguments. I don't see this as necessary and speaking to quickly can be/oftentimes is a detriment. I'm a smart woman, and I can follow pretty much anything at any speed. But, when you're trying to argue complex philosophies at 400 words per minute, your argument loses effectiveness because you're not allowing time for my brain to digest this info. I'll put my hand up if you're going too fast-- if you choose to ignore this, your speaker points will be deducted.

I'm really open to any arguments as long as they are well argued and linked to something and impacted. Seriously...I'm a blank slate and you need to convince me that your argument is relevant. I'm willing to suspend reality a little bit (i.e. a drowning baby in the middle of the forest with no parents to help it...literally, dead parents-- this was an actual argument), but let's not go too far off the beaten path of real life. Again I state: link and impact your arguments.

If I post this information, or if debaters ask specific questions about what my preferences are, I assume you ask because you care and because you'll modify your argument. You don't ask your grandmother what she wants for her birthday only to get her the same ugly sweater every year. Please...again I state that this is a public speaking event so make sure you consider your audience before you debate.
  