
  Allison Hahn (Pitt)
Debated – 1 year middle school, 4 years in HS, 4 years at Pitt.
Coaching – 5 years US High School Teams, 3 years Mongolian HS Worlds Team
Education – BA in PoliSci, Anthro, and Africana Studies, MID in Development Planning and Environmental Sustainability / Asian Studies, Fulbright to Mongolia, presently Com PhD program at Pitt.
Overview- I want to watch and learn from your friendly debate about the resolution. If you present a clear debate (with a voting criteria and explanation of how you win within that framework) I’ll vote for you. I would rather watch you in a good debate, be it about Stock Issues or non-topical performance, then suffer through a bad attempt at judge adaptation.
If no-one presents a clear voting criteria, these are my fallbacks…
Analytics – with few exceptions, your explanations are better than a stack of overcut cards.
DA’s – I refuse to cut updates or read corporate media. If you run one, you’ll need to explain a good link and non-generic impact scenario. I don’t think North Korea is evil, I do believe in aliens.
Education – Above all, debate is educational. I am unimpressed by attempts to suppress, silence, or inhibit your opponents. I’d default to Gordon Mitchell’s debate good cards.
K’s – My favorite when done well. I’m partial to de-dev, anarcho-primativism, nanotech goos, anthropocentrism, and social ecology. However, please don’t assume that I’ve read the same authors that you have. Save time to explain the voters.
Moral Imperatives – Please don’t assume my morals are the same as yours. I don’t think I have the capability or authority to decide between two genocides. If you do, please explain it very slowly.
Performance – Excellent when well done, but you need to tell me and the other team what it means.
Plans and Counter Plans –You can run as many as you want so long as they are well explained; though, it’s easiest to vote on just one.
Stock Issues / Theory I’ve voted for everyone of the shits and given low point wins for boringness.
Speaker Points I follow directions on the ballot but usually stay between 20 and 30.
Speed – I like it. I loved to be faster than the other team, then I debated against a team that was faster than me and I learned that sometimes speed destroys the debate and education.
Spreading – this is different than speaking quickly. It’s annoying to flow, wastes paper, and just sad to watch the other team cope. This is a nasty trick that might be fun but should be used sparingly.
Type in the content of your page here.
  