
  Category - I will do what you tell me in any given debate. I am a tab judge and have no pre-dispositions to arguments although I do think some arguments are pretty silly. (RVIs) I want to be extremely clear on a couple of issues. 1. Explicitly sexist, racist, xenophobic, and homophobic discourse does not belong in debate. 2. I do not care who you are or where you are from - I will vote for whoever I believe won the debate round. 3. Have fun! - often times debaters get way to caught up in the hype of debates and just forget that debate is a blast. 

Rounds in 2014-2015 oceans topic: 

Background - I debated for Midway High School on the Latin America topic. I was a octo-finalist at TFA state,won UIL state twice,was top speaker at UIL state, and placed top 10 at nationals. I do not particularly care where you are from in terms of how I judge a debate. I would classify myself as a pretty hybrid debater in terms of the policy/k split. (50/50) Before my senior year I debated at Farwell High School which is a extremely small school in west texas but please do not let that tell you how I judge. Currently I am a college student at Texas Tech University studying International business with a double minor in economics and marketing. I also debate for Texas Tech. In high school I read all sorts of affs (hard right Heg good affs as well as affs that didn't support the USFG and criticized the rez) and went for all sorts of negative arguments. (even though I probably read those same negative arguments on the aff lol)

Speed - You can go really fast - you can go really slow - you can wobble to and throw - I don't care how fast you speak. I mostly spread in high school but believe that in terms of speaking you should be allowed to speak how you want. If I have a problem understanding you or can't flow you I will say clear 2 times and after that I will put my pen down. It is your responsibility to make sure I can flow.

Ks - I will evaluate whatever you tell me but please don't expect me to know every critical theorist in the book. Aka don't expect me to know what baudrillard said on page 4 of some book he wrote. I believe the best K debaters can be understood by anyone. A good idea would be to put a overview on the K inside the block when extending it. I dig some wild stuff. Don't read the K because you can read it because it's a legit argument. In high school I went for the K quite a bit and I enjoyed those debates more than policy intensive debates.

CP/DA - I will vote for the world with the most beneficial post fiat impacts. I like perm debates tbh. 

Case Debates - I agree with Dylan Quigley "Good, deep case debate is tragically a rare unicorn in much of high school debate. This makes me sad and probably increases the chances of you losing. Good case debate is also the quickest way to higher speaks. This applies as much to a K debate as a DA debate."

T - I will usually default to competing interpretations but that is not to say I won't pull the trigger on reasonability if it is left un touched. Topicality is about a plan text in a vacuum. Please make clear reasons why your interp is good and what the impact of that is. (ground,limits,predictability, etc.)

Notes: - If you have any questions for me post round please ask them. Some people believe that asking questions after any given debate is a challenge of "judge authority" but I really don't. I am a critic for a academic debate and if I can enhance the education you gain from debate than I will gladly do so. If for some reason I cannot disclose at the end of debates you can always come talk to me after the debate somewhere else or email me at hunter.r.hall@ttu.edu

Speaker points - I think that 27.5 is pretty average in any given debate. If you say some really messed up stuff (Explicitly sexist, racist, xenophobic, and homophobic stuff) you will probably lose speaker points quickly. Speaking will not impact who I vote for but arguments will.
  