
  When throwing me into a category: If you must put me into a set judge philosophy I consider myself Tab with a usual default to being a policy maker. 

Alma Mater and Conflicts: I competed in policy debate all four years of high school in a rural community in Jayton, Texas. I debated on multiple different circuits including local, state, and national circuits. I coached for apx. 7 years at Farwell, Texas where my teams competed on local, state, and national circuits. Although I am in my 40s, I have found that my judging philosophy has grown with the activity. I have an undergraduate in business from Texas Tech University and a Masters in Education from Wayland Baptist University. I currently reside in Waco, Texas where I am an elementary principal. 

General: I am pretty Tab. Explicitly sexist, racist, xenophobic, and homophobic discourse does not belong in debate. I would prefer you “be nice” in a sense. 

Speed: I am comfortable with all speeds in debate. I don’t think you have to be worried about me keeping up inside any given debate. I do have issues with speed at the point you are not clear. I will abide by the practice of saying “clear” loudly if you are not clear enough. If I say, “clear” its not that I cannot comprehend it’s because you are just unclear. I evaluate debates based upon the arguments presented not how you present them. 

Conditionality:  I am not in favor of multiple conflicting advocacies. I find that I am best situated in the realm of logically limited conditionality. I don’t think “dispo solving your offense” is a persuasive argument at all. In terms of conditionality as a voting issue I have usually found myself voting on a fairness impacts opposed to educational impacts…But if you are really good at defending multiple contradictory advocacies GO FOR IT…but PLEASE I would prefer you collapse down in the block and go for one. 

Ks: I am fine with Ks as long as you explain them and don’t just expect me to know what Nietzsche says about suffering, Baudrillard says about movies, or Leo-Dio Says about dreaming and Inception. Post-Modernism has to follow the rules of the real world. I don’t know every K buzz word #sorrynotsorry I am not stupid in terms of K literature but I am also not someone who sits around and dwells about my privilege or epistemological constructs. I enjoy a good permutation debate. There. 

Performance Aff’s: I have never voted for a performance affirmative but I am very tab and will abide by the framework you present to me. I expect you to put me inside that framework and justify it. 

Topality/Theory: I am likely to default to competing interpretations to evaluate the educational module of debate. I think that some Counter-Plans are cheater but that’s your job to point out inside a given debate. 

DA/CP: I default to voting for the advocacy with the most net beneficial post fiat impacts. On all portions of the debate I tend to use the heuristics of offense/defense, timeframe/probability/magnitude, and uniqueness/link/impact to evaluate and compare arguments. Note: These are the debates I prefer to watch. I don’t have any pre-dispositions against arguments but if you are looking for some sweet speaker points and me being happy about a debate these are the debates you should probably lean towards. 

Case Debates/Impact Turns: Impact turning racism = bad. Impact turning Warming = I will listen. I enjoy a good case debate and enjoy logical case debates. Whatever that means. Well-researched case negs are encouraged. 

Offense/Defense: I obviously believe that offense is the strongest form of argumentation but don’t get me wrong I will vote on a straight defensive argument such as “say no” or if the aff/neg argument straight up just doesn’t have a impact at the end of a debate. I don’t really know what you can do with it. Defense is terminal there is not always a “risk of a link” 

Other/Extraneous: I tend to think that some arguments are cheater…but I can’t stress enough how I am not going to do the work for you. 
  