
  3 years of Policy Debate for Hillcrest, ID
Competed in CX at NFL Nationals
Debated at Pacific Northwest bid tournaments

Arguments

Topicality- Topicality isn't one of my favorite issues. I'm receptive to it, but you'll just have to do hella lot of work on it to win my ballot. I'll generally evaluate it from a basis of reasonability but if you go for it I like to see a clearly articulated and legitimate scenario, with a lot of line by line work on the interp/standards.

Counterplans- Counterplans are fine, I'll vote on them however I don't want it do get into a big theory debate. I usually think that the negative should get some conditional, non-contradictory advocacies, however I can be convinced otherwise. 

Disadvantages- Disads are great, I think that they're very strategic and greatly add to the education of the round.

Kritiks- Kritiks are cool, however I like to see a lot of work done on the alternative. This includes impacting it out throughout the round, and explaining very particularly how it functions in relation to the affirmative. I've seen/ran too many kritiks with vague and illegitimate alternatives, so make it explicit. Also, specific links to the affirmative will build the it's legitimacy and are usually very important. If you are going to go for it then I often think that it's important to win some framing argument. 

Theory- I really don't enjoy theory debates but if you feel that it's necessary to gain recompense for some abusive strategy then go for it. Only go all in if it's a really big theory issue. "Reject the arg not the team" is usually my frame.

Performative- Performative debate is really fun to watch, but it's tough to judge it. Framework is going to be absolutely necessary for both sides, and the performative team will be on an slight uphill battle because of my lack of experience in judging it. However, don't let this deter you if you think that your argument is super badass and you have a good chance of dominating with it.

Blah- I'm okay with speed but clarity and volume are of extreme importance to me. When you're extending evidence I really want to see the warrant extended not just a half second author extension. Impact everything out really well, and have some fun.
  