
  Paradigm for Julian Hamud

Helo, hello. 

To give a brief intro, I studied International Relations and debated policy for three years at San Francisco State with a toe in policy land and a foot on the k side. I'm comfortable with most anything (and think you shouldn't have to care about what I like), so run what you know and what makes you happy. That said, my brain has slowed down a bit lately, so national circuit speed spreading may not end well for any of us. No rounds and no research on this particular topic, so topicality and case will have themelves as tabula rasa a judge as you can find, but I won't be up on all the acronyms and terms of art. 

FW- I'm fairly sympathetic towards the need for a topic as a springboard, so something completely divergent will be an uphill battle, but even that is winnable on both sides. Generally, convince me why your approach to the topic and the way I should evaluate the round are good. I intentionally worded that vaguely. 

K's - There's a decent chance I'll have some familiarity* with the literature, but I won't be an expert on it, so explanations are helpful. Framework is a big deal, but I tend to be leery of the extremes of that debate in any direction. 
*Psychoanalysis and metaphysics will need to come with some Simple English Wiki explanations. Maybe a pamphlet.

K aff / performance - Go for it, but again, I need to understand how to vote / evaluate framework.

Theory - I'm not above signing or striking arguments on a cheapshot, but slow it down. I have a fairly high threshhold (especially lacking obvious and significant in round abuse) and prefer quality over quantity; spamming theory args will lose you speaker points. 

T - Same as theory, but with a lower threshhold. Spell things out, especially standards and voters. 

CP- I highly appreciate creative arguments and answers, including when things get icky in the CP theory. Net benefits need to be explicit and perms need to be articulated. No big biases towards or against anything, but if it's a generic actor or delay counterplan, more nuanced explanation will go over better.

DA - Link stories are critical and much more important than just yelling "extinction," smart defense is underrated, and impact turns don't offend me. 

Case - Enjoy it, just don't know it for the topic. Comparing warrants is necessary to win it.

Last notes: Be respectful - really. I take notes in cross ex but don't flow it like a speech. And have fun!
  