
  I debated LD for 4 years at Stuyvesant HS in NYC and qualled to TOC my senior year, winning bids at Yale and Hendrick Hudson.

Speed - I was never really good at flowing so I ask that you don't go your top speed or if you do, please please PLEASE slow down for tags and author names. I'd prefer that you change all of your author tags to their last name only i.e.Joy Gordan, just say Gordan. I'll shout clear as many times as necessary and I won't dock speaks unless you continue to obnoxiously spread in an incomprehensible manner even after i've warned you several times. Also, the stocker your position, the faster you can spread because i'll be more familiar with the evidence.

Additionally, if you're going to read a framework with a shit ton of spikes, please at least take a breath between each separate argument to signify to me that I need to flow a new point. Debaters make the mistake of blitzing through their huge paragraphs of pre-empts without a single breath and honestly, even the best flow judges won't catch everything.

Theory - I default to reasonability unless otherwise told. When reading the interpretation and violation, SLOW DOWN. If i don't know what the initial interpretation is, you explaining the violation won't make any sense to me. Also, I will buy "no abuse" arguments even if we're looking at competing interpretations so please do not read frivolous theory. On the same note, don't be a dick in round and read a shell against some jver who will obviously not understand it. I'll vote you up if it's unanswered but i'll give you like 13 speaks.

Critical/Pre-fiat Arguments - I did not read a lot of critical positions and am not very familiar with these arguments so if you wish to read these positions, make sure you can read it relatively slowly and be able to explain the nuances of these arguments VERY clearly.

Kritiks - I dislike these positions. Don't read them.

If you really want to win my ballot, be as substantive as possible. Good framework debates/evidence comparison are rare to come by so if you're good at either (or both), please show me that. I'll give you extra speaks. 

Ask me specifics before the round as well. The things on this page are rather generic.
  