
  Name: Donnie Hanson School: Silver Lake 
of years debated in HS:  4 What School: Silver Lake # of years debated in College: ~1.5 What College/University: Emporia StateCurrently a (check all that apply)
 Head HS Coach
X  Asst. HS Coach College Coach
_ College Debater Debate Fan who regularly judges HS debate
of rounds on this year’s HS Topic: ~15What paradigm best describes your approach to debate? X  Policy Maker
_ Stock Issues
X  Tabula Rasa_ Games Player
_ Hypothesis Tester
_ Other (Explain)
How I feel about delivery (slow vs. fast)?
Speed is fine. I prefer tags to be differentiated from the body of the card somehow. Talking a little slower during topicality/theory blocks would also be appreciated.

Topicality

If you’re going for topicality, I think there ought to be a significant portion of the 2NR devoted to it. I would say I default to reasonability only because teams usually don’t do a good job explaining their interpretation and why I should prefer it in later speeches. Neg should probably explain specific ground they’ve lost and how the aff has skewed the debate.

Critical Affs/Framework

I think the aff ought to be somehow related to the topic, and have some sort of advocacy/statement that they defend. Arguments like “there’s a topical version of your aff” are persuading to me, so the aff should explain why their argument is unique and why switch-side doesn’t solve.
Counterplans/Disads

They’re good. I’m not a big fan of international actor/consultation counterplans, so the aff ought to present reasons why they’re illegitimate. Specific links should be read at some point. 

Critiques

Don’t rely on my familiarity with an argument in order for you to win. I like “solves the aff” arguments to be made, whether it be through the alternative or “root cause” arguments. Specific links should be made clear using either cards or arguments made by the aff.

Paperless

Tell me when you’re done prepping and doing evidence transfers. I’m not going to count this transfer time as prep time.
  