
  I have been debating for 3 years, and am currently debating at George Mason University
Overall Notes
I vote on the flow, and try to be as objective as I can when I judge. That being said, I am a K debater, and that is obviously my prefered style of argumentation. I will still vote on Policy style arguments/ Framework(if it is run well).
Specific args
T- Meh. I honestly don't find this argument persuasive, but I default to competing interps.
Framework- This is a debate. Defending debate norms is cool, and I am fairly familliar with both sides of this debate. That being said, I am probably more sympathetic to exclusion args then policy education args.
Theory- Potential abuse is not a voter unless theory is dropped or impacted out VERY well. Theory is almost always a cheap shot, but i will vote on it. I don't really like theory unless abuse has actually happend, but i recognise its strategic use.
Cp's- They can be cool, they can be stupid. This is one of the few postitions I buy theory on. Other than that, do you.
Da- They're cool. The more creative the better. (I don't know what else you where looking for)
K's- I really enjoy a GOOD K debate. I HATE a stupid K debate. I personally run mostly high theory arguments, but I also run queer theory and similiar identity arguments as of recently. The impact debate is very important to me, you need to win the reason you come first in the round (duh). Also, do not assume I will just accept your arguments because I understand them, you still need to explain yourself and give warrants.
Areas of literature where I have a good amount of "Knowledge":
Deleuze 
Deleuze and Guattari 
Nietzsche
Queer Theory 
Areas of literature where I have decent amount of "knowledge":
Baudrillard (Yes even your Baudrillard)
Spanos 
Spivak
Afro-Pessimism 
Zizek 
Lacan
Foucault 
Areas of literature where I have a small, but existent amount of "knowledge":
Indigenous Studies
Schopenhauer 
Badiou 
Bataille
Agamben
Anything else you can assume that I only have tangential knowledge of.
Speaker Points- 
(Stolen from Shree Awsare)
< 25: You really got on my nerves and you deserve an equally obnoxious number on the 0-25 part of the scale

25: You showed up but didn't really make an argument past the 1AC/1NC, and didn't ever acknowledge the fact that there were opponents making arguments in your speech

26: You showed up and made some claims (mostly without warrants) that occasionally clashed with your opponents

27: You made a variety of claims in the debate (some backed up with warrants) but had a variety of severe strategic mishaps and/or failed to impact your claims

28: You made a variety of claims in the debate (most of them backed up with warrants), but you were occasionally playing with fire and had questionable strategic maneuvers

28.5: You are solid. Your claims are backed up with warrants and you have a strategic vision that you are attempting to accomplish.

29-29.9: You've done everything needed for a 28.5, but you sounded really, really good while you were doing it. This probably includes: you had excellent ethos/pathos, you were incredibly clear, you were hilarious (or if you aren't funny, you somehow connected with me as a judge and made me want to care), and your strategic vision was executed nearly flawlessly.

30: Life changed.

TL,DR: I'll try to be as much of a blank slate as possible, but am probably at least slightly biased towards the K.
  