
  I judge by the flow. I will listen to any argument (except racism/ableism/etc. good) regardless of its truth so be sure to answer it. Tech over truth all day long. I mostly do policy, but I have done some of PF and LD for the last 3 years. I am fine with speed. I will be keeping track of time. Impact calculus is critical to winning a round. I love scrappy debate but don't be overly cheaty. Finally, an argument that is not extended or answered is a dropped argument and so a true argument. Don't shadow extend arguments, actually explain it as you extend it, and don't just use buzz words. 
Add me to the Email Chain: benharrisdebate@gmail.com
Ethics challenges: They stop rounds.
Policy:
K's - A good K is always good. I will buy any argument here as well. I am moderately well versed in the literature, but that does not mean you can get away with not explaining your K. Perms can still work with K's. Lastly, Cap is a non-unique disadvantage, I don't love it but will vote on it if necessary. 
K/Performance Affs: Utilize your performance as offense if it works, but I am not really persuaded by these arguments. I think that the aff should defend an advocacy statement (probably a topical plan or the resolution), but I can be persuaded otherwise. I love framework and will happily vote on it. Go beyond your prewritten blocks and actually debate the substance of the argument. Nothing is better than a 2a who answers a bunch of framework arguments that the neg never made. 
T- If it is a topic generic aff, then it is topical. Otherwise, I will buy T. RVI's might be one of the few exceptions to the rule I stated at the beginning, I hate them, but I will vote off them if they are dropped. 
DA's- Great. Love them. Will vote on them.
CP- I am a 2N, so I don't really find them abusive, but again any argument goes. I love Word Pics and a good, nuanced, one will help your speaks. Generic CP's are nothing special. Consult counterplans are the one kind that I feel are cheaty, but I can be persuaded otherwise. The perm should be in the 2AR 9 times out of 10. 
Presumption- I only put this in here to say that I buy presumption more than most judges. I think that it is an underused argument that is actually great. 
 Prep: Starts and stops when you tell me to, but do not steal prep. 
LD:
Same as above really. I am fine with speed, but if you spread you should flash. 
Value: I don't love value debates very much and really default to Util, but if your value wins you the round then go for it.
As a policy debater, I prefer progressive LD, but I am fine with traditional LD as well. 
For all forms of debate: Just do what you are comfortable with, I will listen to it, and if it is well debated, I will happily vote on it.
  