
  Skyler Harris (Updated for Berkeley 2018)
Debated for Clovis North High school, where I was coached by Deven Cooper & Max Bugrov
Debated for (3 Semesters) California State University, Fullerton, where I was coached by Toya Green, Max Bugrov, and Lee Thach
Cleared to the bid round at every invitational I attended my senior year, qualled to the TOC blah blah blah I know what it's like to be a high school debater
Was a "K debater" in high school, went for a large variety of args in college. This doesnt really factor into my philosophy too much.
At Cal State Fullerton I was a Double-2 (2A/2N): We read a bunch of different stuff. I care way more about how you read what you read, than I do about what lit you're reading. please, don't be boring.
Please feel free to Add me on Facebook, or Email me at skylrharris917@gmail.com if you have questions, comments, or concerns. I want your in round experiences with me in the back to be educational, feel free to ask me questions, leave opinions or criticism etc. about the me as a judge, insofar as you aren't rude about it.
I am Black, and my pronouns are they/them.
Beliefs about Debate:
NEW DO NOT READ THE K IN FRONT OF ME IF YOU DON’T READ/KNOW WHAT YOU’RE SAYING. POOR, SHALLOW K DEBATE IS AN ABSOLUTE TRAGEDY.
FIRST AND FOREMOST: Why be tech OR truth when you can be Tech-y truth?
K debates: evidence is secondary to explanation, coming to the stand without a laptop to give a 2NC is most definitely lit - Block reading is irritating.
Policy Debates: evidence probably matters
If you don't solve anything, I vote neg on presumption.
The role of the neg is to negate the affirmative.
Make it easy for me to vote for you.
Debate is a game. Each round is a completely different world. As far as I'm concerned, it is a site to test strategies and become smarter, with a goal of defeating the other team. NOTHING LEAVES A DEBATE ROUND. YOU'RE NOT SOLVING ANYTHING MATERIAL OUTSIDE OF THE ROOM. You can claim to solve material violence within the game world that you have created within that specific round, but stop with “out of round spillover” that I don't want to hear, and that certainly isn't going to happen. 
ALSO: PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE don't bring personal qualms you have with some team or other random beef that happened at some other time in some other place into the round I'm judging. Its awkward as hell, unproductive, and won't help you get my ballot.

Into the specifics:
What you care about: FRAMEWORK Against K AFFS - I love K Affs, I read them all the time. I also love when teams go for framework against K Affs. If your answers to framework are poor, I will happily vote against you. For the negative, Just make sure the 2NR has lots of OFFENSE. 5 gold stars for using a shell that doesnt begin with Ericson 03.. wheres the innovation?
T in Policy v. Policy Debates: If clear impacts and offense are outlined in the 2NR, I will vote on it
CP's/DA's: Cool, the trickier the more i'll appreciate them.
K's: Awesome, Go for anything. If you read something that is centered around race, pomo, absurdity, or making me laugh, (or a combination of these) i'll appreciate it greatly.
Conditionality: I'll vote on it, but you better be winning impacts. - IF SOMEONE READS 12 OFF ON YOU, they most likely 1. don't link to the aff, or 2. can be answered quickly. 3. contradict
Been judging a lot of policy v policy debates on the education topic and am loving it! innovative affs are always a great thing
Ethical stuff: You can read anything in front of me, if someone is reading a fucked up argument, blow up on them productively with awesome arguments.The only times ill vote a team down instantly are:
A non black person saying the N word
The use of violent Sexist/Homophobic/Transphobic language
Things I love:
Being an asshole in CX but still being productive. (For people who don't understand this, it means being funny or snarky without being a Patriarch/Racist/Nuisance) Very difficult, attempt at your own risk, just be yourself in round lmao 
Trolling - if done correctly, great!
OFFENSE heavy Speeches
Things I hate:
Complaining but not actually making arguments
Defensive Speeches
Speaker Points: Don't worry about it. I loved getting speaker awards, and if you do well, I got you.
  