
  I debated for 4 years CX at Bronx Science and I am an Economics student at Harvard. 


My general philosophy is that debate should be conducive to the ultimate dissemination of information in a real-world and applicable context. To elaborate, I strongly believe in the educational purpose of this forum, which is for me the most imperative standard. You can speak as quickly as you want as long as I can understand the tags and authors. However, remember that reading 10 off is not as impressive as reading 3 well structured off. 


Therefore, my positions on arguments are as follows:

Disads – The impact and brink should be clearly articulated. It is very important to weigh the impacts of the disad against those of the case. A clear timeframe should be given in regards to how the passage of the plan would lead to nuclear war.

Kritiks – Kritiks can be interesting and enlightening if articulated well. The negative team should be very much prepared to explain to me, and the other team, what the real world implications of the kritik are. Also, if you are going to run a kritik, it is probably a good idea to run framework so that I have a clear understanding of how the negative team thinks the round should be analyzed.

CPs – I am all for counterplans. In fact, I think that the counterplan/net benefit/DA – plan/harms debate is one of the most compelling aspects of policy. A clearly articulated counterplan provides a good way to evaluate the importance of passing the affirmative plan.

Topicality – I have a very high threshold for T. I believe that T has become an over-utilized tool in the policy debate world. That being said, I will fairly evaluate a T violation if there is very clear evidence of abuse. Again, it should come down to education. I think everyone in the room would learn more from a CP 2NR-2AR than a T speech.
As a general rule – do not go for 5 different positions in the 2NR. Also, if you are going for T in the 2NR, I would prefer if it is your sole position given that, in order for me to vote on it, T requires an extensive explanation. 

Theory - In general, I find theory to be counterproductive to substantive debate. Yes, debate is a sport and there are rules. However, I will evaluate theory in instances wherein there is clear abuse (e.g. the neg runs a conditional counterplan and 2 conditional kritiks). 

Case – Unless you are going for an all out kritik negative, there should be some case debate in the 1NC. If you run a DA, you should run some case arguments as well. 

For the aff – I am comfortable with evaluating “alternative” cases that critique aspects of policy debate, as long as the implications of voting aff/neg are clearly explicated.


Ultimately, if both teams walk away having learned something during the debate, then I consider that both sides have gained something.
  