
  Current Affiliation: Western Kentucky University
My view of debate is not all that different from others. I think it is a strategic game that when played well can be one of the most rewarding experiences.
I did policy in high school for all four years and I now debate for WKU.
I go for spec. arguments and T all the time. Don't be afraid to go for these in front of me.
While I haven't judged any formal rounds on this topic, I did help coach a camp in Kansas during the summer. Additionally, we debate about renewable energy all the time in college, so I am very familiar with the literature.

General Stuff:
You can run whatever you want, however you want. That said, I am not all that deep into kritical literature. Thus, if you are going to run a K, make sure you explain your framework, don't assume that I know what it is. Also, (and this may be common sense but I feel the need to say it nonetheless) make sure your alternative solves for the kriticism. If it doesn't, it will be a hard sell. Counterplans are fine, CP theory is also fine.

Theory:
I will vote on theory, but ONLY if it has a voter. Also, you need to make sure to priortize these voters. For instance, you need to tell me how/when I should vote on theory vs. voting on the Disad., or the case impacts. As for Perms: I generally think that they are a test of competition unless the team specifies that they are now their advocacy. Be sure to make these arguments however. If it is only a test of competition, I need to know that.

Speed:
I don't care how fast you go. I do, however, care if you do not articulate. I will probably clear you a couple of times and if you don't fix it, then it's your fault if I miss something/misplace it. Note: "Clear" does not necessarily mean slow down, it just means that you should speak clearer. Additionally, I think you should respect your opponents. If they ask you to slow down and/or clear and you refuse, expect to lose speaker points.

Topicality:
I think this is a misused argument in policy. Topicality can be a very strategic choice most of the time. I will vote on the flow, not on whether or not I think they are topical (as that calls for intervention). SO, don't be afraid to run T and go for it, OR don't be afraid to run T and kick it. I like it.

I realize that this is a crash course on how I view debate, but really I don't care what you do. That said, I will default policy maker.
Don't hesitate to ask any questions
  