
  Debated for three years at duPont Manual.

Generally, I'm not too worried about stock issues as long as you're not ridiculously untopical or something. Either way, I won't do the work for you -- if the aff is not T, then the neg needs to call them out on it; I won't. I love really creative and interesting affs that don't always end in nuclear war. Try to stay away from advantages that include Khalilzad or Bardnt 91 -- I like kritikal arguments a lot, but I'm totally willing to vote on really policy args, as long as they're articulated well and appropriately. Just try to be original -- the more passionate you are about your args, the better.

As far as specific neg args go: T - I'll vote on it, but you have to go for it all out in the 2NR. Same goes for theory (and you have to prove unique in-round abuse. Take care to impact theory really well.) Really all that the aff needs to do to win T for me is make a good, extensive reasonability arg and answer all the offense on the flow. Politics DAs are kind of conceptually challenged, and usually don't make any sense, and usually don't have much weight in the round, so I probably won't vote on them unless you do a killer job with the story and you do a killer job telling me why it's so so so important. It doesn't take much for the aff to win that debate though. I love the K. During most of my rounds in high school I've gone for the K, and I'm pretty well versed in critical philosophy. Performance is fun too; there is definitive value in it, as long as you're not BSing.

I hate hate hate generic args that you stole from camp files or something like that. Creativity in argumentation is extremely valuable in today's world of abundant states cps and health care DAs.

Random stuff: if you tell me to read a card after the round with good reason, I will do it. Just remind me in case I forget. But if someone is totally misrepresenting their ev, then dude, call them out on it and tell me to read it to prove it. Impact all arguments well, and give really good analysis on them. I don't care that something ends in nuclear war if you don't tell me what that means.

Speaking stuff: SPEAK. CLEARLY. If I miss stuff, I'm not going to ask you about it if it's because you're unclear. NUMBER YOUR FUCKING ARGUMENTS. Slow down on theory, T, etc.

And most importantly, CHILL OUT. It's debate, and we all love it, but it's hard to love it if you ruin the fun for everyone else. Don't yell at each other, be polite, etc.

Also if you disagree with my decision or something I said, then it's not the end of the world. Talk to me during the critique and I might reconsider if there is some compelling reason to do so.
  