
  Brittany Hayes
Affiliation: Charles Page High School, Oklahoma
Experience: High school and college debate, 4 yr head coach
Round This Year: 30ish
Rounds Last Year: 80+


General Philosophy: I am a tab judge. As a judge, I think it is important that there is no interference on my part. That being said it’s your debate, my argument preferences shouldn't deter you from running the strategy that you think you will be successful with. Run what you think you will win with, bottom line. I tend to revert to an offense/defense paradigm if there is nothing in the debate about role of the ballot etc. Also, I will not make extensions/cross-applications for you. I enjoy technically sound debates.

Speed- I am fine with speed. Clarity is important, and generally slowing down on tags is important too. This is especially important on procedurals, theory, framework, and kritikal arguments. 

T- I am not disinclined to vote for topicality, but I think most people run because they were taught to in the very beginning. Spending 30 seconds on T in the block, and then acting like its the biggest issue in the round during the 2nr probably isn't going to win my ballot.

In Round- I don’t necessarily mind aggressive debates, but hateful debates are unacceptable. Using hateful, sexist, racist, homophobic or otherwise offensive language will be reflected ( at best) on your speaker points or (at worst) the ballot. A good debate usually garners around a 27, any thing lower or higher than that will be explained on the ballot.

Kritiks- I enjoy critical debate especially when it’s clear and explained well. Also, a kritik tends to be better when they are educational. That being said, framework is usually important. I have experience with quite a few authors, but that does not excuse poor execution or explanation. Know your authors, pulling out a K you've never read probably isn't a great strategy. If it confuses you, it’s also going to confuse me and the other team.

DAs: I love specific argumentation, but hate outdated arguments. I love politics, but running uniqueness from October (in late January) is likely to be both annoying and ineffective.

CPs: I love a good counterplan debate, the more specific the better.

CX- It’s your time to clarify and extrapolate, its also the closest interaction with the judge. Use it wisely.

Performance/non-traditional- Although I am not the most experienced with this type of debate, I am open to it and interested in it. My lack of experience shouldn't be deterrent, but I've only heard about 15-20 of these types of debate.

Please feel free to ask specific questions before the round.

Updated 1/1115
  