
  Update: Harvard 2018
tl;dr: I am tab and will vote on anything you win.

General Things:

I debated for four years in high school and now debate in college. I don't frequently judge on the circuit, so I'd appreciate if you'd slow down. That being said, if I say “louder”, that means speak louder, not slow down. I won’t feel comfortable voting on something that I’m not sure if I heard.

I'm open to a wide variety of argumentative styles and approaches.
I’m pretty tab. I’ll listen to almost anything you tell me, but if I genuinely feel uncomfortable (because you’re saying something racist/sexist/etc.) I’ll stop flowing.

Extensions:

If something is dropped, I’ll grant you it if you just explicitly point it out.

I’m amenable to voting off of tricks, but if I don’t think the argument was flowable the first time, I’ll listen to responses in the NR/2AR.

Framework and Ks:

I’m familiar with framework and I study Philosophy now at Harvard. Since leaving high school, I’ve become convinced by Sophia Caldera’s stance on comparing frameworks:
The round runs into an obvious problem when both debaters tell me some framework warrant "precludes everything." Please give me specific comparison or weighing between framework arguments instead of relying on concessions of overhyped analytics.
I’m interested in well-fleshed out framework debates between framework and the K, as well as well-warranted theory interactions.

I’m also interested in the possibility of RVI-type arguments on Ks. (I won’t make this argument for anyone in rounds (obviously), but I think that incorrectly calling something out as oppressive trivializes actual oppression that people face)

Theory:

Slow down on interps. Please make clear arguments for whatever paradigm issues you want me to use on theory.

I have no preconceptions about whether fairness or education is more important.

Other:

I don’t like passive aggression in the CX. If you’re gonna critical of your opponent’s arguments, be open about it. If you are passive aggressive, it won’t affect your speaks or whether or not you win or lose, but I might be sarcastic during my RFD.

If you make me audibly gasp, you’re on your way to a 29.5+.

I do not care about your attire, accent, or school. Be respectful.

There’s a rumor going around (started by me, here) that I’ll give you slightly higher speaks for referencing RuPaul’s Drag Race. 
  