
  Namaste. My name is Beau, and apparently I'll be your judge (unless you just happen to be going through all the judge prefs; in which case maybe you should read a book, or maybe do something outside). I'm currently a sophomore at the University of Rhode Island. I debated C-X at Classical High in Providence in high school, and am currently a coach with Debate Rhode Island Incorporated. I enjoy camping, long walks on the beach, and a nice cup of black tea. 
Read this if you haven’t debated much: 
Cross-ex is not a team activity. Let your partner answer questions as much as possible. If you need to step in, step in, but if you are dominating your partner, it probably makes you look mean and your partner look less credible. Some basic advice for the neg: don’t spread yourself out in the block, and don’t take too many flows in the 2NR. Know what you are winning. Perhaps most importantly, KEEP MY FLOW CLEAN. Know how to roadmap and signpost well. It wins rounds and speaks.
Now on to the fun stuff.
1) Judges are ignorant and unpredictable creatures, I am no exception, don't let me make the decision on who won based on my musing at the moment. Demonstrate beyond a reasonable doubt that no matter what insanity may be possessing me today, that I must vote for you.

2) I try to be as blank a slate as possible. I throw out most of my personal knowledge and experiences, meaning you need to tell who to vote for and why. That means IMPACTS, IMPACTS, IMPACTS. Don't make me look at the flow to figure out who won (your speaks will suffer). Make my life simple, and you will be rewarded.


3) I value the flow very heavily, making it in your best interest to keep it clean, sign post and follow your roadmaps! I don't judge from memory, and if it's easier to flow you, it's easier to vote for you. If your spreading is so horrible I can't understand, I will put my pen down.
4) Impact turns: Yay. If you are going for these, I’m probably happy. So, to the aff – don’t blow off an impact turn by just extending your 1AC impact card unless you know your 1AC cards are good and deal well enough with the impact turn. To the neg—these debates are complicated, and most affs have good tricks to get out of impact turns, so make sure you keep the details straight, are good on the line-by-line, and catch the trick. Side note: heg high/low is not the same as heg sustainable/unsustainable. 1AR impact turns: You should probably kick your aff or part of your aff if you are going to do this. It’s a risky option but can get you far.
5) I'll vote on Theory and T but you must spend time on them. I love both of these but don't just extend them into the 2NR give them the time they deserve. On that point, do not extend any argument by saying "extend that" you at the very least have to give a reason for your extension. I have been known to vote on RVIs but you need to treat them with the respect they deserve and there MUST be actual abuse. Specific arguments:
1. Perf Con: I default to multiple worlds, and I'm pretty sympathetic to the neg as long as they don't cross-apply abusively. This is, of course not set in stone. 
2. Condo: I honestly think this is fine if the neg isn’t doing something else that’s abusive (like cross-applying contradictory arguments or going 27 off). That’s only true up to a point, though. If there are unnecessary amounts of worlds in the 1NC just to skew time, condo becomes increasingly illegitimate. I’m still willing to vote on condo bad if you only read one conditional CP, but the aff will have a harder time winning that in front of me than in front of some other people.

3. Judge kick: it’s okay, even if not explicitly explained in the 2NR, unless the aff says otherwise.

4. CP competition: You can win any CP in front of me, it just depends how good you are at theory (and, of course, debating the CP proper).

7. Presumption: goes neg unless the 2NR includes a CP.

8. ASPEC: if you have to go for this in front of me, you are in a bad place unless there is some sort of legitimate abuse story (i.e. they spike a disad) or it’s a new aff.
6) Risk analysis: Defense matters. If it didn’t, the aff would always be able to win on a tiny risk of “try or die” framing and the neg would be able to simply read a bunch of terminal impact cards and go for “there’s a .0000000001% chance they cause this.” You can win a 100% risk of a no link argument. However, that is pretty difficult to do. I will generally adhere to an offense/defense paradigm unless told to do otherwise. Dropped arguments are usually true arguments. 
7) DA’s: are a great 2NR option. There’s not much to say here that isn’t covered in the risk analysis section. You should do impact calc. If you are debating a team that drops one of your disads, you should extend it but not harp on it. Don’t read a bunch of new impacts or unnecessary cards, because that justifies new 1AR arguments (or impact turns.) 

8) CP’s: are useful. I talk about CP theory above. Theaff needs to have a solvency deficit (or go for theory).

Permutations: are tests of competition, although if you can give me a good reason why you can advocate it, go right ahead. Clever permutations are always a plus. For example, if the CP has China fund and enact the aff, a permutation to have China fund the aff and the US enact it is a clever permutation. Hopefully, though, the neg catches your shenanigans and points out that the permutation is functionally intrinsic because it adds the act of China giving money to the US. Know the difference between function and textual competition and use that knowledge. 
9) K’s: I somewhat critical when I debated, and I'm a bit of a philosophy buff, so I should be able to understand your K. If I don't, then you're doing it wrong. It doesn't take much to convince me of a link. I think that's the beauty of running the K, but alt solvency is a much harder battle. If I don't buy your alt, then you're SOL. If you go for the K, then you should devote a lot of time on it. You don't want to gamble with my (probably wrong) assumptions about your literature. 
10) Kaffs: Similar story here. You really have to sell me on solvency. I find that most K-aff teams have trouble articulating their solvency. In round? Out of round? Spillover? If you can sell your solvency, then I will probably vote for you. 
11) Speaks:

What gets you good speaks:Following the flowMaking it easier for me to flowMaking things interestingClear spreadingProductive CX
What hurts your speaks:Being really boringWasting CX or PreptimeBeing rude
12) I'm doing this for fun so I expect you to have some fun as well, take the round seriously but that’s no reason to be boring.
  