
  I've been coaching LD for almost 20 years. I’ll accept just about anything, but the burden is on you to teach it to me. Thus my paradigm is one of education--being a teacher I have a good idea of what that’s about, and being a student, you should know what it’s about as well.
 
Your job is to teach me about why your position on the resolution is the one that should be the most valid in the round. As a teacher, you should strive for clarity and concision because education is a communicative act and a clear, concise message offers you the greatest chance to communicate successfully.
 
As far as adjudication, I need to know why something is important for me to learn in the round. Whatever you chose to run in a round, then, should be explained so that I grasp the argument at hand, the support for that argument, and the reason why that argument is important in the round. A lot of that is self-evident, I know, but you should consider that I won't finish arguments for you.
 
Consider the round a type of test you're giving me. First, it should be clear to me what’s on the test and second why certain arguments are more important than others. If you write a test I understand and can learn from, you'll win the round. Thus, your victory is a type of merit pay.
 
Theory: I'd rather not vote on this. I think too many debaters use it as a way out of the more substantive ethical matters at hand. That said, I'll consider it if you run it well.
 
Critiques/DAs/ and other CX cross-overs: Sure, if you have the time to teach me, I have the time to learn. Just tell me how it's to function in the round.
 
Rebuttals: Crystallize and write the ballot for me.
 
Standards: They give me a clear manner by which to weigh the round. If you use a traditional value/criterion structure, then understand that links and impacts to standards are important to me, but they’re not the only way I’ll weigh the round. Given my paradigm, you could run anything else, so long as you are clear, weigh it, and tell me why it’s the best way to adjudicate the round.
 
I invite creative, innovative ways to frame the debate, but they require an extra burden on the debater’s part to make things clear and conscise.

  