
  5th year policy debater at University of Minnesota, Assistant coach at Wayzata, I've been a 2N basically all of that time
liamheigis@gmail.com put me on the email chain please
TLDR: Do what you want, except silly high theory garbage

The K
Likely the reason most people are reading this philosophy, so ill be honest, meh. I am very familiar and have gone for the basic ones, security, cap, psycho, etc etc, and a little bit of enviro rhetoric/baudrillardish stuff related to warming representations. outside of that though, i'm not especially knowledgeable. It's not that i'm against a philosophical argument against the plan (on the neg y'all, only on the neg), it's just most of them are run confusingly, a mishmash of unrelated postmodern babble, with the neg hoping they'll drop one of the 17 parts to explode it into a new K in the 2NC. dont do that. Sidenote, i actually really like race/gender K's, but i am just the whitest malest (which isn't a word) person you'll probably meet, so i always felt like i was exploiting another identity group to get a win if i ran one. If identity neg args are your thing, please run it in front of me, i'm excited to learn.

Counterplans
Run them. These comprise quite a few of my 2NRs, and if you can get away with dirty process counterplans, then run them. They win debates. That said, where i lie on CP theory......

Probably bad - Delay, offsets, reneg... (realizing that the litmus test for a bad cp might be if GBN cut it)
Probably good - a case specific PIC
Everything else - somewhere in between

Execute theory well and i'm more than happy to pull the trigger on it. Unless your theory argument is completely trivial, i.e. advantage cp bad. On the issue of conditionality, I'm probably biased towards the neg. 0-2 is almost certainly good, 3+ is pushing it.
Advantage counterplans are particularly fun to watch, and I think lead to some of the most educational debates. Sometimes (or most times) affs are completely terrible. Advantage cp and impact turn is a reeeeally fun 2NR to judge, and a good way to beat those shitty affs.

Disads
hmm, i suppose these haven't existed for a while, bu if you can find one, please run it in front of me. love to judge it. As the community's threshold for link ev has gotten lower and lower, i think i lean more towards uniqueness controlling the direction of the link. Theoretically though, it should be the opposite. Get better link evidence, then maybe your DA will actually make sense. Just a note: my opinion of the ptx DA has gone down quite a bit due to the utter idiocy of the scenarios during the 2016-2017 season. Really people? McConnell pc was the best that you could come up with? This is how the K debaters win...

The aff
You know what you should do? debate the case. I especially like impact turns, the further out there, the better. Maybe don't go for only case defense, but zero risk if most definitely a thing.

T
Ill be honest, i'm a T hack. i calculated it, senior year was 83% T 2nrs (if framework counts as a t 2nr). Take that how you will, but know that if you are going for T, i will know what you are doing, and thus consequently know what you did wrong.

K affs
I find my thoughts on K aff's to be constantly shifting (which seems vaguely familiar), generally in regards to the specific variety of aff. Race affs or other kinds of identity arguments i think are probably pretty important to the activity, but they are also really hard to say anything against. i always went for framework against this kind of aff, but i think i'm fairly impartial when judging this particular type of civilization clash. that said, get your high theory goop out of my face, you are the worst.

Other notes
Things you can do to increase your speaks
Be funny (my soul is black but yours doesn't have to be)addendum: if you aren't funny, please dont try to be. It's painful for all of us.Joke ideas:Idk, like memes probablyDheidt the k debaterHow silly Pan isany high theory puns (arendt that hardt to do)political humor (2018 update: might make me sad so fair warning)Make cool cross applications. It's always fun to watch the neg get destroyed if they kick out of something wrong, and doing this well will gain you a lot of ethosKick your aff well and go for an impact turnshow me your flows after the round. If they are good, maybe ill give extra pointsAlso, (serious moment) lets just all be nice people. Debate should be a place of acceptance and tolerance, and blatant disregard for others will lead to a docking of speaks. Asking about pronouns and such would probably be a good standard practice.


Make sure to enjoy yourself. A sullen debater will make me sullen, and then why would i want to vote for that person?
have fun y'all, -Liam (Grandpa)
  