
  Started debating in1971. Coached since '85. I love debate as an activity. Ultimately being a debate coach was the thing that pushed me into teaching. But I become gradually more and more horrified at what was happening to Team debate back in the late 80's, by now I want nothing to do with this event. And what I've seen and heard of LD recently, that should be added to the events that I no longer believe has much real educational value the way it is currently practiced on the so called "circuit."

If you have me as a judge in Policy or LD .....

Policy Debate I start out some version of Stock issue/ Policy Maker. You should deliver your speeches at a pace of delivery not much faster than conversational. Slow Down.
The farther you are from the actual topic the less likely you are to bring me to your side of the issue. I will listen to T if its based on a genuine deviation from the topic. I've voted on inherency many times. Smashing the Patriarchy may be a good idea, but if it's not directly linked to the topic it's probably not worth your time to argue this.

I was around when the fad of "Kritiks" began as an overt attempt to avoid actually researching the topic by the Negative. That, and the fact that I've a very dim view of "Post Modernism" (Google Alan Sokal if you are curious) and the arguments that stem from it, mean that I'm packing a large negative attitude toward "Circuit" debate. You should speak slightly faster than you would in conversation. You should stop coughing up cards or blipping tags, look up from your materials, look the audience in the eye and explain in clear analytical terms why your arguments are compelling.

I think Lincoln Douglas Debate is Value Debate and I've coached long enough to know that LD was an overt reaction to the pathetic nonsense that circuit policy debate had become. If you are doing LD and sound like a circuit policy debater you are unlikely to create a positive impression on my ballot or flow. The NFL says plans are illegit in LD. The NFL created LD, I don't much care what a summer camp instructor told you.

Public Forum and Parli Debate should consider the above comments.

I also love platform speech events and I enjoy interp events so long as the crying, swearing and screaming are kept to a very minimal level.
  