
  I have been involved in policy debate for eight years now, I currently coach and am well read on the topic.

Paradigm:

I wish not to say anything too confining. I am Tab, though even through that lens (or lack their of) I end up defaulting to evaluating impacts most similarly to a policymaker, unless the impact or implication is framed in another way.

Specific Arguments

I'm good for just about anything that is well debated: T, Theory, DAs, CPs, Ks... I can even be persuaded to vote solely on inherency if it is well debated.

That being said, I enjoy seeing a strategy in argument selection, and appreciate when arguments don't blatantly contradict each other (i.e. the DA linking to the CP, or Cap Bad and an Econ Impact on politics). Especially in the 2NR.

Additional notes:
In terms of speed, I would identify myself at around a 7 on all arguments except for Topicality and Theory (which, should be significantly slower). I have yet to have a problem while debating or judging where one team or debater is 'too fast,' the issue rather lies in clarity (more so the lack there of).
Be clear (If you aren't I'll let you know) and slow down for tags... It needs to be on my flow in order for me to evaluate it at the end of the round.
Impact everything out... Offense and Defense... I want to hear you telling me why your argument is more pressing and important than the other team's. I hate having to intervene... "Magnitude," "Probability," and "Timeframe" are not obscenities, please use them.
I put my heart and soul into policy debate for four years. I worked tirelessly to put out specific strategies for specific affirmatives and I like to see debaters who I can tell have done the same and are having fun. So, show me you know your case better than anyone else if you're affirmative, or on the neg, show me specific links and answers to the affirmative... I tend to reward this in speaker points. ...That being said, generics are fun, fine, and essential for the negative team. Feel free to run them, you will not be penalized in any way.
Biggest Pre-Round Bias: I tend to not think that winning T is a reverse voting issue for the affirmative, though I have ran and voted for Ks of Topicality, and arguments such as T = Genocide.

Finally,
I realize that this is fairly scattered, so feel free to ask questions before the round.
  