
  I debated on the national circuit for four years at Harvard-Westlake School in Los Angeles, CA and I qualified to the Tournament of Champions both my junior and senior year. The summer of 2014 I worked at NSD.

Speed: I’m generally fine with speed, but please try to be clear. I will yell clear three times in round and then I will probably lower your speaks. Please note that I haven’t judged a round in a while so it would be helpful if you work up to your maximum speed in order to ensure that I can follow. Please slow down for theory/topicality interps, plan/CP texts, and author names.

Extensions: Please extend claim/warrant/impact for all arguments you want me to consider for my RFD and tell me how it functions in the round. Even dropped arguments. Please.

Presumption: I default to presuming AFF but I will presume NEG if you win that I should.

Theory/T: I default drop the arg on theory and drop the debater on T. I presume fairness is a voter. I presume theory is not an RVI (but obviously if you run one then I will vote with that in mind).

Policy Arguments: I’m very comfortable with plan/da/cp debate. Please make sure you weigh (well always weigh, but especially here) and tell me explicitly what comes first and why.

Ks: I definitely ran Ks/critical arguments as a debater so I feel comfortable voting on them, but please don’t assume that this means that I understand the dense philosophy of your case. That being said, the more I understand your position, the more likely I will be to vote on it. I would also like to see Ks with an explicit and concrete alternative. If your K is pre-fiat, you need to explicitly say so.

Tricky arguments: I never read these in high school, but I will vote on them like any other argument. That being said, you need to be explicitly clear about a) where they came from (if you are extending something from your last speech) and b) how they function in order for me to vote on them.

Please note: I reserve the right to drop you if I feel as though you run an argument that is extremely offensive or hostile towards your opponent. If you think you may run an argument like this, the best thing to do is to just not run it in front of me/probably never run it. If you want to ask me about something in particular before the round I can tell you if it applies.
  