
  Debate History: Canton McKinley High School(Ohio); Louisville High School (Ohio)
NDT@ Morehead State University (KY)
Coaching History: Morehead State University (during Masters Degree work); Kansas State University; Louisville High School
Currently coaching at Wooster High School (Ohio)
I've coached Ohio state champions, and national qualifiers on both high school and college levels.
Occupation: Court Magistrate and Attorney

Years Judging: 33
Total Years Coaching: 18 (I take periodic breaks from coaching; but I judge every year.)

Paradigm Preference: Polcy Making

Judging Philosophy: You debate; I decide. I have voted on all types of neg arguments.

Kritiks present a problem if deep philosophy is presented with little explanation at high/incomprehensible speed - it becomes mush. Neg is way behind if they wait till 2NR to explain a Kritik.

A fast rate of delivery is acceptable, so long as the speaker clearly articulates. I take detailed flows. I can't remember the last time I read evidence after a round, so make sure it is comprehensible when presented. And while I listen to see if ev corresponds with tag, it is up to debaters to make the challenge and point out problems.

I prefer that each individual stand alone when handling cross ex. Perhaps because of my trial experience, I believe each debater should be able to formulate and answer questions. If you cross examine a witness in court, your co-counsel will not be able to jump in and help. I believe cross ex offers one of the most challenging and rewarding aspects of a debate round. If you strive to do it correctly, it will provide invaluable experience for whatever career path you take. Avoid tag team cross ex. Stand alone and think on your feet. If you think your partner can't handle questions/answers, then your speaker points will reflect the image you project.

Oral critiques will be relatively short. I focus on strategic choices and lost opportunities. I will not engage in a post-round debate. I make an effort to write detailed ballots on the issues so coaches can actually read the reasons for decision rather than hear it distilled through their students. I will always be available and open to any coach who wants to talk to me about a round. Coaches should not hesitate to approach me at a tournament.
  