
  I am currently a Junior parliamentary debater at Whitman College where I am pursuing a double major in History and Legal and Political Rhetoric. I competed mainly in congressional debate on the local and national circuit for Eastside Catholic High School from 2009-2012.
  
 I like people who think outside of the box and make their individual debate unique and interesting for me, as a judge, to watch. I enjoy policy positions most, but I am willing to listen to anything you want to argue. All I ask is that you make sure to tell me how I should evaluate arguments and how to weigh them. 
  
 Speed: I am pretty good with speed. Parli is a quick event so I shouldn't have an issue with speed. If I do, I’ll yell clear. Please build up to max speed in your first 20-30 seconds of your first speech. Also, please slow slightly down for taglines. 
  
 Policy positions: my main background is in debate regarding policy. This means that these are my favorite debates to watch. I am open to plans, advantages, counterplans, disads etc. I like policy positions most, run them.
  
 K’s: they are fine with me. If they are very specific or nuanced, as I hope they will be, make sure to be clear. Make sure to do an exceptional job of telling me how to evaluate the K versus whatever else is being argued in the round. 
  
 Theory: for the most part I think that theory is a waste of time in LD. Sometimes it is necessary to check real abuse and I am certainly willing to vote on it, but it certainly doesn't make for the most interesting debates. I would much rather you answer a position instead of just reading theory. Nonetheless, if you are going to go for theory then you should be clear on weighing interpretations and standards. I won’t vote on an RVI, but I expect that if you’re going for theory then that is all that you’re going for. 
  
 Speaker points: I give speaker points based on how well you debated and how interesting the debate was for me to watch. Out of the box arguments and jokes will be rewarded. I average about a 28. 

Feel free to ask me any other questions you have before rounds. 
  