
  Me
I'm in my third year debating at the University of Georgia (Go Dawgs!!) and I debated for Houston County High School for 4 years.

If you have any other questions, email me at camhen.debate@gmail.com - I would like to be on the email chain. 
- I won't read evidence "inserted into the debate." Debate's a communication activity and it justifies highlighting large parts of other people's ev which you couldn't read in a speech because of time constraints. I also don't know why it isn't the same as inserting a 20 min 1AC into the debate. Just read their re-highlighted ev or make broad indicts about the context of the ev. I think this practice is unethical. 
TLDR : Plans or GTFO
Prep Time ends when the jump drive leaves your computer.
I am very much so tech > truth.
Body shaming is bad.

Please Don't:
Be Rude or aggressive towards me, your opponent or your partner
Perform or imitate a sex act of any kind
Talk about suicide
Get naked

Please Do:
Read a plan
Defend a course of action
Defend your consequences

Have a competitive methodology
Case Debate
I like specific case debate. Shows you put in the hard work it takes to research and defeat the aff. I will reward hard work if there is solid Internal link debating. I think case specific disads are also pretty good if well thought out and executed. I like impact turn debates. Cleanly executed ones will usually result in a neg ballot -- messy debates, however, will not.
Topicality
I enjoy T debates, but please give me comparing visions of the topic (case lists are important). I default to competing interpretations but can be convinced otherwise; please put some effort into your reasonability arguments. You are fighting an uphill battle if you're trying to go for T must be a QPQ. 
Theory
Slow down. If you want me to vote on it, you have to give me time to actually write down your arguments. I have a pretty high threshold for condo with 2 or fewer condo options. More than 2 conditional advocacies is probably abusive. 
DA
The link is really important to me. 
I love good politics debate. The 1NR should do solid evidence comparison.
K
Links should be specific and well explained (there's a trend here). Don't get lost in buzzwords - make actual arguments. The aff should probably get to weigh their aff, but if they shouldn't, explain to me why. 
Too many times I see debaters forget about case – it’s still there. 

If you’re aff against the K, don’t forget your aff. I dislike rejection alts- realistically your aff is a DA to the alt, impact it.
Death is bad. 
CP
They're cool. The more germane to the aff/topic they are, the more I will like them. 
Process CP’s are probably bad. I think you need a solvency advocate (with rare exceptions). 
K affs
are fine- you have to have a plan. You should defend that plan. Affs who don't will prob lose to framework. A lot....
NonTraditional Teams

If not defending a plan is your thing, I'm not your judge. I think topical plans are good. I think the aff needs to read a topical plan and defend the action of that topical plan. I don't think using the USFG is racist, sexist, homophobic or ablest. I am persuaded by T/Framework in these scenarios. I also think if you've made the good faith effort to engage, then you should be rewarded. These arguments make more sense on the negative but I am not compelled by arguments that claim: "you didn't talk about it, so you should lose."
  