
  Background

I debated in High School all 4 year doing both PF and Policy as the 2A/1N, and am currently on Simpson College's PF team as a First-Year student. I went to GDI 3 week before my freshman year and then went to the GDI 5 week Scholar program the next year. I debated CX locally in Arizona, also going to Harvard and Berkeley TOC tournaments as well as Las Veges. I am pretty Liberal and a typical college student. I like jokes and such, so make sure I have a good time in the round. If I am stupid let me know, and also I took the time to write all this shit, so make sure you read and APPLY it to the round. Have fun, but make sure to still respect your opponents. I am ok with speed, will yell clear if I need it. Make sure that you read the Tag and the Cite loud and clear so I can have those down correctly.

I am chill with tag team CX. I think it should be the debater's job to make sure that the time is correct so make sure you cross time in case I forget to. If you have any questions you can ask before the round. I also always disclose. I might not always say it directly but that is because my RFD made it obvious.

Paperless debate

I debated paperless in HS my Junior year. It is up to you to make sure you get the other teams cards and they should be able to provide them to you. That means if you are paperless you best have a flash drive or kiss some speaks goodbye. You should give them a flash drive or a viewing laptop with the cards that you are reading before you start to speak. You can however stop prep and the you are able to save your files and then hand that over to the other team. If you end up reading more cards the other team would be right to ask for such things.

Topicality

I will vote on T, but you better be winning and know how to debate it. If you are going for T then make sure you have cool things like case lists and actually talk about the interpretations. Make sure that its a little slower so that I can write it down right, or at least if it will matter in the round. It hard to get down the 6 points if you read it all in 15 secs, But if you are just going to kick it, who really cares? Aff be sure to have CIs as well as answer there standards if you are feeling bold.

Kritiks

As the 2A/1N I didn't do much of the K. My partner was the K hack. I will vote for them if you have it down or if you are debating it well, but perms are killer, being that the Alt is what gets the Non UQ DA its UQ. PIKs are really dicky so run them because that is an easy way to win. Aff, put some theory on that shit and preempt it.

Counter Plans

If I had a love child it would be the Courts CP. It was the best ever, and still probably is. Counter Plans that are topic specific are also really cool ... because they are all fancy and unique. You need to make sure that you win the perms as well as have a good CP text. Have it written down. Aff, read that text, and if there is an error that is killer, point it out. Also don't have errors in plan texts. I cannot tell you how much time skew I did with capitalized federal government not existing. Don't be dumb, there are rules. Anyways, have a good DA that you can solve for.

Disads

Run them, on or off case. Got to like the Politics DA. Make sure you do the Impact Calc that is needed. If you don't, I will be very mad at you. Very mad.

Theory

I don't like it to much, but if you got to do it, do it. I will vote on it, just do a good line by line and don't just read blocks. If you actually answer their points and have your own, and they just read blocks, well you probably have won it. Make sure you have things like in round abuse and stuff, so that there is something to vote for. RVIs are really funny, and I would love to be able to have someone else get the pure joy of winning with one because the other team didn't answer the 7 words.
  