
  Hey there.

I debated for Law Magnet for four years and graduated in 2015. I was mostly involved with the TFA circuit but my last year I did a few national circuit tournaments. As of right now, I am a first year at Occidental College and am an intended Critical Theory and Social Justice and Psychology double major with education minor. That should tell you a little about the type of debates I like to take part of (well maybe ignore psychology).

Criteria/Standards/FW in general: I need a certain variation of this. I don't really care what you call or where it is as long as it very clear that X thing is my metric for evaluating the round/arguments. I just need there to be a clear weighing mechanism in which I can compare impacts under or else I can't really do an effective job. I prefer a well thought out framework (which leads to a good framework debate) than something boring like the util cards we all probably know by memory. This part is very crucial for this filters what arguments make it to my evaluation of the round. (if you're a util person, sorry... just make it not boring)

Theory: I'm down to listen to legit theory about legit abuses because in an ideal debate world this is how we change debate. I don't like theory that is just to fill up time... that is not the kind of debate I'd enjoy being a part of. Lets talk about actual abuses happening in or out of the round so we can have a discussion on how to come to a resolution. I am more compelled to listen to education claims. Fairness is ehh. I don't have a preference for standards so surprise me.

Kritiks: Yay! Yay! Yay! This has to be one of favorite things of debate. Well if they are done well and are actually relevant. Don't run Kritiks if you don't know them... Don't bring them up just because you saw it in your team's back files. I don't have any preferences as far as what I like to see or how I see Kritiks going down. Please just run something that actually has a link and that has a pretty damn good impact.

I feel like I just said a lot of things, but if there is anything in particular you want to know look for me.
  