
  Overview:

Y'all know me, still the same O.G. but I been low-key
Hated on by most these niggas with no cheese, no deals and no G's
No wheels and no keys, no boats, no snowmobiles, and no skis
Mad at me cause I can finally afford to provide my family with groceries
Got a crib with a studio and it's all full of tracks to add to the wall
Full of plaques, hanging up in the office in back of my house like trophies
Did y'all think I'mma let my dough freeze, ho please
You better bow down on both knees, who you think taught you to smoke trees
Who you think brought you the oldies
Eazy-E's, Ice Cubes, and D.O.C's
The Snoop D-O-double-G's
And the group that said motherfuck the police
Gave you a tape full of dope beats
To bump when you stroll through in your hood
And when your album sales wasn't doing too good
Who's the Doctor they told you to go see
Y'all better listen up closely, all you niggas that said that I turned pop
Or The Firm flopped, y'all are the reason that Dre ain't been getting no sleep
So fuck y'all, all of y'all, if y'all don't like me, blow me
Y'all are gonna keep fucking around with me and turn me back to the old me 

Nowadays everybody wanna talk like they got something to say
But nothing comes out when they move their lips
Just a bunch of gibberish
And motherfuckers act like they forgot about Dre

Line by line:

Experienced former debater. Current coach for CK McClatchy and Executive Director of the Sacramento Urban Debate League (SUDL). I coach several SUDL schools in addition to CKM, including Rosemont. I judge a bunch of rounds each school year and feel in-depth and informative RFD's are key to debate education.

Tabula Rasa. I will adapt to you rather than you to me. It's not my place as a judge to exclude or marginalize any sort of argument or framework. I will vote on K, T, CP, case, FW, performance, theory, DA's.... whatever. I personally enjoy hearing a good K or theory debate, not that I'm more inclined to vote on those genres of argumentation. Down for the K, performance, or topical aff. Anything goes with me.

I'm big on organization. Hit the line by line hard. Don't just give me 3 min overviews or read a bunch of cards off the line, then expect me to conveniently find the best place on the flow for you. Do the work for me. I flow on paper OG style, so don't drop arguments. I don't flow off speech docs (neither should you). I will call for cards if I need them. I can handle any level of speed, but be clear. 

I will work hard to make the debate accessible and a safe place for you and your arguments. If you have access needs during a debate, wish to inform me of your preferred gender pronoun, or if there is anything you wish to communicate privately, please let me know or send me an email.
My judging philosophy is very short for a reason. Its your debate, not mine. Just stay organized and tell me where and why to vote. Write my ballot in your 2NR/2AR.
  