
  Mariesa Herrmann Judging Philosophy
Experience: 1 year coach at St. Stephen's Episcopal School Austin, TX, 3 years debate University of Texas-Austin, 4 years debate
Bryan High
School

I try my best to be objective and evaluate arguments as they are presented. I
will vote for arguments that are intelligent, well-explained, and impacted.
However, don't assume that just because I debated for the University of Texas
that I love kritiks. I have a preference for counterplan and disad debate, but
this certainly shouldn't deter you from running arguments you think
will increase the
likelihood you will win the debate. My feelings on specific arguments
are below.

Topicality
I understand that topicality can be a strategic argument, and for me, questions
of competing interpretations vs. in round abuse can be debated out. However,
I think that in cases of reasonably topical affirmatives and
affirmatives that are so widespread that they're predictable, the
negative has a very high burden to prove that
the aff is unfair. I once heard this good advice, which you should
follow in front of me, if it's a tie between going for a substantive
argument and topicality, you should go for substance.

Theory
Again, theory can be a question of competiting interpretations or in round
abuse. In general, I'm a fan of negative flexibility. Some advice: if
it's a tie between going for theory and substantive arguments, you
should go for substance. In addition, if you're going to read a whole
bunch of theory arguments, slow down; these are a pain to flow. Going
for theory arguments usually requires a substantial time investment in
the rebuttals.

Disads
I like disads. Explanation and impact comparisons are important.

Counterplans
I like counterplans and tricky pics.

Kritiks
I'm not that well read in this literature but I understand the way that many
kritikal arguments are explained and deployed in debate. I prefer link and
impact arguments that are specific to the plan, as opposed to vague statements
like "you link because you use the state." Most kritiks should probably have
an alternative because otherwise, they run the risk of being non-unique. I'm
not fond of the vagueness in kritikal debates that occurs because negs refuse
to explain what they mean or what exactly they'll defend. Just be willing to
debate - not run away from it.

Kritik Affs
I generally think Kritikal Affs should have a topical plan, and that
the Aff should
defend this plan. It may be possible for you to convince me otherwise.
  