
  Background: I debated for Coeur d'Alene High School for four years, most of them focusing on policy. I've also been judging for the past three years, again in mostly policy.

Ultimately, I don't care what you do as long as your arguments are well formulated and you actually understand the core of the argument. If you have no idea what you're running, it is obvious and I will cross that argument off the flow almost immediately.

Delivery: I'm perfectly okay with speed, as long as you are clear. Slow down on your tagline and source. If I don't catch at least your tagline it will not get flowed and essentially will have never happened in round. Also, don't be a huge jerk. This will result in lower speaker points. I'm usually pretty generous with speaker points unless you do something completely unforgivable. 

Case: Don't forget about it! I do believe that case is important; however, depending on the arguments presented I might not look towards it first.

Topicality: I'm not the biggest fan of T especially when it's apparent that you're running it as a time suck argument. With that said, always put T at the top and always spend at least one minute on it. Anything less will not be considered a sufficient answer. For example, if Neg spends all five minutes of the 1NR on T and Aff only spends ten seconds in the 1AR, I will be voting Neg. When presented, I will consider topicality before anything else. When answering T, make sure you convince me it's not a voter. 

CP: The more specific, the better. Generic counterplans are a waste of my time and your time.

DA: Again, I like case specific links. Generic links simply do not cut it.

K: I LOVE kritiques when they're run correctly. I have a degree in philosophy, so I'll know if you understand the K you're running. If you run a K wrong, I will not vote for you. However, if you succeed then I'll probably give you very generous speaker points and you could potentially even win the round. My biggest pet peeve is when Nietzsche or Foucault get butchered.

Theory: Run it if you want. I will vote on it if you convince me.

Other: Make sure you give me sufficient impact calculus. Outweigh your impacts against your opponents. I love this when it is done successfully.

If you have any other questions, feel free to email me at ellinyjade@me.com or ask me before the round starts. Good luck!
  