
  Affiliation: Charles Page High School, Oklahoma and Casady High School. 
Rounds on this Topic: 0

Update: I've noticed a odd uptake in reading Andrea Smith cards from teams (doubly so coming from decol teams) if you read a Smith card you get one warning. Next time I judge you I vote you down for it. Bad scholarship is bad and you should feel bad. If you don't know why it's bad 
http://indiancountrytodaymedianetwork.com/2015/07/17/cherokee-women-scholars-and-activists-statement-andrea-smith

I'm in my third year of college debate at University of Central Oklahoma where we go for various arguments from t, cps, das, or ks so I'll let you decide how I should judge the round. I have no prejudice against any arguments Critical or otherwise since I've debated both sides.

Speed- Fine with this. If I have to say clear more than twice I will stop flowing. SO clarity is important.

T- I have done a little topic research but not a lot so make sure this debate is very clear if you go for T. A good T debate is always neat. Tell me how to evaluate it and weigh your standards and we should be fine.

Counterplans- Go for it? The only thing I have here is if it's cheating (i.e. Consult, Conditions, delay, or word PICs) i'm very likely to vote on theory against these. Don't recycle old word PICs and think I'll vote on it easily. A well thought out CP will show me you do research and that is always good.

Disad- Again go for it? I prefer a specific link but if not contextualize the link you have. Contextualization is hella impressive and should happen every DA debate. If the DA isn't turning case you are doing it wrong. Impx calc is a must. Makes my job much easier.

Ks- Probably where I'm better at. Just like I said on the disad a specific link is best but if not contextualize which I feel doesn't happen enough in K debates. ALT should be more nuanced than "reject the aff" cause that is just boring and probably not what your alt card says. I'm not super strong with your "high theory" k's. So if you read DnG, Baudrillard, and the likes make sure to explain it well. If you got a DnG K from cross-ex and thought it would be fun to read and can't explain it i'll be annoyed. The alt debate to me is the most important. Better be solving something I'll tell you what.

Theory- Condo is probably okay to an extent. Gonna have a hard time convincing me a K,CP,DA strat is bad for debate. But if the neg contradicts its self in the 1nc a shit ton of times then you have a case. I evaluate this a lot like T. So. Ya.

K aff's- I find i'm more likely to vote on framework against K affs that don't really do anything and don't talk in someway about the topic.
.0.

Random Things- Uhhh prep stops when email is sent or you are flashing. But only if it's reasonable if it takes you forever to flash I'll start prep. I find that makes folks speed up the flashing process.
Speaks: I'm still getting the hang of that, but you will not get below a 27 unless you clearly don't care about being in the round, or you say something racist, sexist, homophobic, ableist etc...
Don't throw jargon out like I know what you are talking about. Jargon makes for bad debate. This is true even outside of K debate. If you use jargon explain it.. If you can't do that you'll have a hard time winning.

Otherwise I enjoy fun debates and humorous debates and I assume you do as well.

I probably left out a ton so of course ask questions before we start or email me at DerekHilligoss@gmail.com
  