
  About me
I am disabled. I am not going to catch everything you say on my flow, and I refuse to make myself miserable trying to do so. My disability (Dysgraphia) makes it so that I am not able to write as quickly as able-bodied individuals, and I am unable to process information while I am writing it. I have to write it down, then re-read it before it makes any real sense to me. I am not the only disabled person in debate, and as a disabled person I refuse to cede my humanity for the sake of 'competition', 'education' or whatever other excuse is popular at the moment for ignoring ableism. If that sounds pretentious or hyperbolic, then I urge you to unpack why it comes across that way. Ablenormativity is systematic, and whenever people with disabilities are forced to struggle their disabilities in order to function the same way that people without disabilities do, they actively make their life miserable in the process.

If your debate style relies on blippy arguments, spreading your opponent, or you will probably not win my ballot. I prefer prefer a focus on impacts, and base the bulk of my decisions from clash that happens in rebuttals rather than argument made in constructive speeches. I only ever put a lot of consideration into un-extended constructive arguments or framework if I have to.

More on Dysgraphia here,
http://www.ldonline.org/article/12770

Accessibility
Disabled students exist, and should be able to participate in this activity if they so desire. They should never have to disclose their disability status in order to justify their participation in the activity, and I think that the expectation for them to do so is toxic. Debate should be accessible from the outset, otherwise the burden of being an educator and an advocate is placed on students shoulders on top of already being a good debater. I refuse to tolerate arguments that willfully make debate inaccessible for people with disabilities, and I do not consider the rejection of these inaccessible tactics judge intervention. Able-bodied debaters choose to adopt these kinds of inaccessible tactics to improve their chances of winning, disabled debaters never have the choice to stop being disabled in order to compete in the same slanted ways.

The Curb Cut Effect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PJoax1Z1x4Y
https://ssir.org/articles/entry/the_curb_cut_effect

Making debate more accessible makes debate better for everyone, regardless of their disability status. Promoting accessibility in debate isn't about "watering down good debate", it's about undoing diversions to good debate. Once we start down this rabbit hole, things get obvious pretty quickly.

Things I don't like - Noncomprehensive
Spreading: meaning rapid fire reading or recitation of pre-written arguments, rather than the natural tendency to speak more quickly in rebuttals out of excitement or adrenaline

Extending Authors: On top of promoting inaccessible debate, I really think this is just lazy debate. I do not have your evidence, and I will not ask for it. Cite your sources, but extend the warrants and the arguments, not the authors. I am not going to flow author names, so if you start extending their names in rebuttals rather than impacting out warrants, then you're only wasting your own time.

Wordy taglines: All I want your taglines to do, is designate a place on my flow that I should be returning to in rebuttals. You do not have to make the argument in the tagline. ex: "Increasing gun control lowers the rate of homicides among families" can just be "Gun Control".

Double-Barreled Taglines: Please, please just give me pen time. You don't need a different taglines for subpoint a.

Ableist Slurs: Cripple, insane, debilitating, etc - just, try to be mindful of this. Don't use things related to disability to disparage something.

E-Mail Chains/Flashing/Calls for evidence: I don't care if students use them, but as far as I'm concerned if I don't catch an argument it doesn't exist. I'm not going to read your evidence.

Etc.
a. If there's anything you want to know, feel free to ask. I make a lot of assumptions here simply because this is my everyday life. If anything is unclear, I promise I won't bite. Accessibility is very important to me, so I can tend to get passionate about it. That doesn't mean I'm mad at your or combative about these issues.

b. Everyone makes mistakes. I would not be surprised in this least if I am the first judge you've ever had with this kind of paradigm. I will not bite your head off for making a mistake, but I will probably make a note of it on the ballot.
  