
  Angela Ho
HS: 4 years Policy Debate at Brenham High School
College: Policy Debater for The Honors College at The University of Houston
Current Job: Assistant for Houston debate/Doctor’s Assistant
Also currently: On a journey to a Doctorate in Optometry at UHCO
Years Judging: 3


The very first thing I'll tell you is that being nice/polite is the number one thing to me in a round because I don't think rudeness is necessary for debate and takes away from the actual education. Second is that I judge based on logic. Make sure all arguments are logically thought out instead of just running them for the sake of running an argument. I also take dropping an argument and an impact calculus in my decision making process. Make me want to vote for you.

Overall: There are no arguments that I won't vote on. I look at whatever you present to me. I am looking for a clear explanation of the function of the argument in the round, evidence comparison, and a clear decision calculus. Again going with the logic theme. I enjoy both K and traditional debates. I would just like that both teams are clear on which side of the argument they are for. I have voted on plenty of arguments that I don't like so feel free to run whatever you are comfortable with but I will list what I tend to look at in my decision.

Flowing: I don't have a problem with spreading; however, I draw the line when you have to gasp and have become even incomprehensible to yourself. I will drop my pen and stop flowing. I personally think it's worthless to spread if you don't use up all of your speech time or not be able to explain your cards. Make sure you pronounce words that will be repeated throughout the round correctly because it does get annoying hearing words incorrectly said over and over and over again.


CX: I don't flow CX, but listen so you can bring it up in your speech for it to be included in my flow. I also don’t count flashing as prep as long as you aren’t abusing it. Include me if you are doing an email chain. 

Things I like: Oncase, Topicality, Disadvantages and Counterplans. Run it and apply it.

Oncase: This is my favorite. I like knowing the flaws of the case and have it pointed out.

Topicality: Make sure you uphold standards and voters and give me a reason to prefer your definition.

Disadvantages: The uniqueness and link to the case are important to me. Push your impacts and weigh your impacts.

CP: Make sure you explain why it solves better than the Aff.

Things I don’t like: Ks, Theory and Framework. It also doesn’t mean that I won’t vote for them. I just prefer concrete evidence as opposed to analytical.

K: I am okay if you ran a K (In fact, I enjoy seeing which K is used for the round and how it is executed). I will only evaluate Kritiks if they are ran properly otherwise I'm not the biggest fan of them. I will vote for them even if I personally do not agree with them. I do want a quick overview of the K being ran, just because I am not fully read on all the different philosophies (but I have dabbled into them so I am not completely in the dark). If you run a K just make sure to explain the ideology of the author. Make sure the ALT is explained, carried throughout the round, and that it is a better outcome for the scenario.

Theory/Framework:It probably will bore me, not going to lie. I’ll listen but it’s not my number 1 voter. I will make an exception if you are able to prove to me that it should be weighed first.

Speaks:For speaker points I don't pay attention to the quality of the argumentation: I look for fluidity, demeanor, tone and courtesy. I will give a low point win if the winning team is being disrespectful, racist, and/or offensive with profanity or anything I deem as inappropriate. I do enjoy humor, sass, Disney and pop culture references so if you can incorporate that appropriately into your speech, then your points will reflect.

If you have any specific questions, ask me before/after the round starts. If not then have fun and run whatever you feel that is best for the round. Good Luck!!
  