
  I have been Judging at the State and National level for four years. I've judged at many bid tournaments (Glenbrooks, Stanford, Harvard to name a few) and I've judged at NSDA Nationals.My participation in the world of debate grew with every new event my daughter entered. As a parent of a young woman that is extremely passionate about Speech and Debate, her involvement has given me a new fresh appreciation for the spoken word. That being said, I want a traditional round. Some of my paradigms are:

Very short version: I only like/can only follow traditional rounds. Pref me if thats what you want. No spreading, no theory, no Ks.

Slightly less short version:

Speed: DO NOT SPREAD. I will not flow it. Do not pref me if you want to spread.Theory: Don't run theory. Unless you want to spend an entire speech explicitly detailing it to me, do not run theory. It probably won't win the round for you and I will most likely just become very confused.K: I'm not familiar with ks and I would not advise that you run them in traditional form. So don't read any stuff thats way out of the box. If you're reading a K that's very easy to grasp, then run it in case form. All in all, I'm not very receptive to Ks.Policy style args: I'm not a huge fan of plans/cps. Run them if you want, but I'm probably less inclined to vote for them than other traditional cases.Arguments: Don't run wacko-args. I will never vote on genocide=good type of args. They must be logical. I will not vote on something that isn't resolutionally apt. You must show me the validity of any args your running. I want crystal clear claim warrant impact, i.e. use those words.Voting: I want to see a clear clash of framework. Show me what your world looks like and how I need to evaluate that world. When I don't see a clear decision on the framework I will vote off of contention level arguments. You need to always be winning the contentions. Also, don't make false extensions, make responses. I know if your opp has attacked your card, don't deny it, that takes away from debate.
Ask me if you have any other questions before the round.
Here's a video of cute goats:
  