
  In regards to my history in the debate community, I debated for 4 years in high school. 2 years as a policy debater then 2 years as an LDer. I graduated in 2010 and am currently a policy debater at Boston College. As such, I am open to most anything as long as it is warranted. I'll specify some things I prefer on here but feel free to ask me questions about anything before round. 

General
I believe a debate round actually consists of 2 debates, the Framework Debate and the Contention Debate. The framework debate decides how a debate round is won while the contention debate discusses what the resolution is about. Winning both is not necessary to win the round however winning both will almost always guarantee a win. Winning consists of having sufficient offense on the flow to either outweigh or thwart your opponents offense/defense. Impact calculus is a must, I hate doing work for debaters

Theory
I believe that theory is a defensive mechanism used to check back in round abuse. I have an extremely high tolerance for theory and expect that the appropriate amount of work needs to be done for any "vote down the debater" argument. 

Case Structure
I will accept any format of a case as long as it has both a framework and some type of contention-like argument. This means I am open to K's DA's CP's or any other structure types. Any argument without an explicit framework I will assume operates within whichever framework is presented/winning in the round. As for burdens and a priori's these need to be warranted as to why they are in place as well as what they are. 

Speaker points
Both debaters default to a 28 at the beginning of round and move from there. I do not care how you speak as long as it does not impair comprehension. I will grant points for creativity and ingenuity in round. Being able to dump a lot of cards quickly and clearly will not hurt or help you in front of me. Understanding and using an opponents framework to your advantage is key to maximizing speaker points. Poor in-round decisions will cost you points. I always prefer positional debate when possible. Any extra work i have to do as a judge will also cost you. 

Feel free to email me with any questions, my email is hollanms@bc.edu
  