
  I'm a freshman at Wesleyan University and I debated LD for four years at Brentwood School in Los Angeles. Facebook message or email me (carsonahorky@gmail.com) with questions
I HAVEN'T THOUGHT ABOUT DEBATE IN LIKE A YEAR PLEASE SLOW DOWN AND EXPLAIN STUFF K THANKS.
PLEASE PREFLOW EITHER BEFORE THE ROUND OR DURING YOUR OPPONENT'S PREP TIME I HATE WAITING FOR THIS

Automatic sub-25 speaker points/ likely loss for any of the following:-disclosure theory. Just don't.-if you are aff and don't affirm in some way-skep triggers-- if you're gonna run something as blatantly bad for debate as skep, at least have the courage to be up front about it-running skep clearly as an avoidance of substance or anything that might resemble quality debate-arguments that implicate that racism, sexism, genocide, homophobia, etc are good. -being a dick

Defaults-Comparative worlds*-Theory is drop the arg-Fairness is a voter-No RVIs-Competing interps**-Theory before T-Theory on the K before K; K before unrelated theory-Presume aff or whoever is being nicer*
*Things I probably won't budge on. I'll most likely evaluate the round this way
Note about reasonability: I have no idea what a reasonability brightline could possibly be. My "gut check" usually tells me that most arguments in debate are dumb anyways, so why would my gut check go in your favor? For me, reasonability is a cop out for people who know they violated theory and don't know what to do about it. If you ask me to use reasonability, I'll just default to competing interps because I think the more reasonable argument is one that links offense into an interp.

I'm probably flowing by hand and therefore going slower than most judges. I'll say slow and clear, but if I'm losing you, I'll just stop flowing. I won't vote on arguments that I don't have on my flow, so be careful about this.

For some reason I'm really bad at flowing theory implications-- I don't know why. But go slower for theory voters, drop the debater/arg, and RVIs

Just some things:-Merely being more leftist will not win you a K debate. I don't know why debaters think that K args are so special that they can go unwarranted and unexplained and then call their judges racist and evil for dropping them. Bad K debate will max your speaks at a 27-I believe that debate is ultimately a competition that can be won or lost based on offense.-I will not vote for arguments that I do not understand-I will disregard completely new arguments/explanations/cards/implications in the NR and 2AR.-Risk of offense if not a compelling reason to vote for you. Obviously there's a risk of offense. Literally everything has a risk of offense.-if you're a privileged white kid, please for the love of God don't read anything that implicates that you're black. You're not black. Stop.-don't read purposely confusing positions. It's no fun for anyone involved.-if you're gonna read a PIC, you might as well look at me and say " I don't know how to respond!!"-if this is a lay tournament, I will judge with a lay paradigm-Politics/Election DAs make me sad

-you might get a little speaker point bonus for making jokes regarding any of the following: West Wing, Westworld, Game of Thrones, anyone from the Class of 2015 or 2016 at Brentwood. 

DEBATE PHRASES THAT MAKE ME SAD:
1. "That's an empirical claim without an empirical warrant" (@greenhill Wtf does this mean)
2. "Infinite regress" without explaining
3. Anything Bostrom says.

  