
  Overview:
 I am currently a Junior debater at Pace Academy. I was a 2n this year, but past years I was a 2a. I will try to view the debate as objectively as possible. I am probably a tech over truth judge, so a dropped argument is a true argument. This does not mean, however, that you should try to make tons of shallow arguments and hope one gets dropped and only go for that. As for argument tendency, I usually go for disads/case debate or impact turns. I am willing to listen to kritiks but I will warn you I am not the greatest judge for an in-depth kritik debate. Theory is fine to go for in front of me, and same with topicality. Also, for cross-ex, I don't mind debaters being aggressive but ad hominem attacks or personal attacks on the debater.

Topicality
 I default to competing interpretations on the topicality debate. This means impact framing in the 2NR is very important for why your interpretation is a better view of the topic. Also, I am not as persuaded by grammar or ground claims on T (unless you have a specific reason why it is important in a round), limits is probably the way to frame the debate in front of me.

Counterplans
 Counterplans should have to functionally and textually competitive. This does not mean I will not listen to a debate over textual versus functional competition. This means I am probably have some sympathy for theoretical objections to consult and conditions counterplans, but if that is your bread and butter don't change it just go ahead. Also, in terms of persumption, I will probably default aff and not kick the CP for you unless told to do so. For condo, you can go for it. If a team reads one conditional advocacy, I think it is harder to win on the aff, but anything above that I think you have a good chance.

Disads
 I love a good disad debate. Politics had most likely been my most frequent 2nr this year. That being said, a comprehensive impact overview and how the DA impacts interact with the case impacts is needed.

Case/Impact Turns
Huge fan. Just make sure you interact the impact turns with the case impacts

Kritiks
I do not know a lot about kritiks but if that is what you are comfortable with then go ahead and read it. This being said, a large explanation of the kritik and how it interacts with case and its impacts is needed. This also probably means that death drive and baudrillard aren't the best k's to go for in front of me.



 

  