
  For Jason Hu from North Allegheny, see "Hu, Jason C." 

Hi I debated for San Marino HS for four years on the local and national circuit, graduating in June 2014. (Currently a freshman in college.) Some of this stuff has been stolen from my friend Rachel's paradigm.

Arguments:
"I prefer framework debates, if only because I'm most familiar with them. That being said, I'll vote for nearly anything as long as the debater making the argument justifies the chain of logic every step of the way back to my ballot. However, though I have a prettyy good understanding of Ks, theory/topicality, plans/CPs etc and ran them several times myself in high school, you need to be very clear about the mechanisms in which your argument functions and more importantly how it interacts with your opponent's. I cannot make those jumps for you. (Also it's been a while.) But I will vote for things that make sense. So please make things make sense..."
Gonna add to that that more than the form of argument not mattering, I also don't mind any argument in terms of content, again as long as it's well-warranted. So I won't drop you / refuse to evaluate an argument simply because it's 'offensive' (unless an argument is made in-round towards my doing that)
Speed: I was never the fastest debater, and there were rounds where I simply couldn't keep up. After half a year out of debate, there's no way I've improved. Don't go at your top speed, please. And if your less-than-top speed is still too fast, I will call 'slow.' If you are unclear I will call 'clear.' I will do it once or twice and then stop if you haven't gotten better.

If you can win a debate against someone with both of you at 350 words per minute, you should be able to win it at when you're both at 250 words per minute and at 150 words per minute.
also I wasn't an extemper but I agree with this too -
"Also, this might be the extemper in me but no shame: I do care about your presentation, as will the rest of the normal world when you graduate and need to know how to translate these skills you've learned in debate to the real world. An argument does not require you to be rude, and speaking at 300 words per minute does not justify filler words and unnecessary repeats. I won't pick up or drop you based on presentation alone but please do make a real effort to convince and persuade."

I don't have a set range for how I would give out speaks, but I will average at 28.
Bonus - I will bump you to 30 speaks if you include a clever League/Starcraft/Hearthstone reference or analogy (and don't mess up too badly elsewhere, of course).
  