
  About me
4 years of policy debate on a national level at Wayzata High School. Graduated Wayzata 2017.


Topicality - I love creative, well thought out T arguments.
Generally default to competing interps but could be convinced otherwise. With that said, if you can prove that you are reasonably topical you can probably beat their interp.
Win your impacts and prove why they matter. Don't just rant about how the aff explodes limits or kills ground, but go another level and explain why I should care about that and value those impacts more than the other team's.

With that said, don't forget to win the violation debate - it's like winning the link to a DA.

Case lists matter, both to prove that your interp isn't overlimiting and that your opponent's interp is underlimiting.

DAs -
Make sure you do turns case/turns DA analysis. With that said, winning that your I/L turns theirs isn't end all be all. The impact is a function of the link, so make sure to win the rest of your DA to be able to access turns case.

A lot of DAs are either really generic, have really bad links or are generally incoherent. If you are aff and you see one of these disads, you do not need a lot of cards to beat them. Point out and win the logical inconsistencies within their evidence and that will win you the flow.

CPs -
Generic CPs are fine, but that means you must be prepared to answer very specific aff tailored solvency deficits. A lot of times this proves fatal for the neg.

At the same time, I am more than willing to vote on theory, but I find a lot of times the aff doesn't spend enough time on it to make it a real issue. As with any other argument, if you explain and impact it out well, I will vote on it.

Kritiks on the neg -
I was policy oriented as a debater, but that does not mean that I will not vote for Kritiks.

Don't over rely on overviews and blocks. Contextualize your arguments to the affirmative and explain what the aff does specifically that links to your generic link cards.
Don't rely on jargon and abstraction- I will likely not understand it. Explain your argument in a coherent fashion and how it specifically interacts with the case and you will be rewarded.


no plan affs - I think that there are educational and competitive benefits to defending the resolution. However, if you can prove that the topic shouldn't be defended, I could lean to your favor. I think framework is a topicality argument and nothing more. Explain why your interp is better than theirs and impact out your argument.



General things-
Frame the round and connect arguments - explain how your best argument(s) interacts with everything else on the flow and explain why you should win because of it. Don't miss the forest for the trees.Cross-x matters. That said, it must make it into the speech to count as an argumentIMPACT out your arguments, and also make sure to explain why your I/L's/impacts turn or access theirsDon't rely too much on cards, more on explanation. I will generally only look at cards if you flag them out to me in the round.Be nice. Rudeness in cross-x will not be tolerated
  