
  *Update for States 2018 (not sure if anyone looks at this anymore, but just in case): I haven't done anything debate-related since May 2017, so please keep that in mind when deciding your strat!

Hi guys. I did LD for Montville Township High School (New Jersey) for two years (junior and senior year), debating on the local and national circuit. I’m currently a junior at Lafayette College and competed on the NFA-LD debate team my freshman and sophomore year. 


Dense philosophical frameworks-They are confusing for me. I will probably suck at evaluating them. If you want to run them, please explain to me what the cards you are reading mean, and their implications. 


Speed-You can speak rapidly and I’ll probably be fine, but I will probably not be the best at flowing you spreading at your top speed. If you decide to spread, make sure it’s actually because you have a lot of useful/necessary things to say, not because you want to seem impressive. 


Theory/T-I wasn’t a big fan of either in high school but I guess I’m kind of more sympathetic to now, especially if it’s T against a weird plan. However, I’m pretty inclined towards buying reasonability args and using them to disregard the shell. Also, don’t extend a spike from your AC and tell me to vote off of it without structuring it into a shell. RVIs need to be justified. Don’t forget to read the implication of the shell (drop the debater/arg). 


Kritiks-These can either be really enjoyable or torturous. Make sure you know what you’re talking about and are specific in explaining how your opponent links. Alts that are more than some version of questioning our epistemology or whatever would be super cool. I also like ROTJ and ROTB args, but give me reasons why I should use my ballot to do whatever, and how that action would be a meaningful way of achieving whatever goal you have in mind. 


Tricks-I don’t like them and I’m bad at flowing these cases. 


Policy Args-I like these. 


Speaker Points-I will start at a 28 and move up or down from there. 


Final Notes-Please don’t be condescending or dismissive towards your opponent. It would be nice if everyone would be more friendly. We’re all equally human. 



Feel free to email with questions: __7ehuang@gmail.com__
  