
  Craig Hughes
Years Debating: 2 years (in college)
Years Judging High School: 2 years

I am currently a debater at Liberty University. I consider debate to be a game, but that doesn't mean you can't try to convince me otherwise. I'm open to many forms of debate, but keep in mind where my starting point is: It's a game to be won. If you want to play by different rules, convince me why yours are better. That's what they call framework. I'll vote on it when I have to. Be sure to argue your points well. Just reading blocks isn't going to be enough... after the 1AC/1NC at least.

Topicality: I'll vote on topicality if you tell me why I should, i.e. have a voter issue extended to the last speech. Remember, just because there's a question as to whether they are topical or not doesn't mean I automatically vote against them. Violations, standards, interpretations, all that jazz. Very important, so don't forget them. 

Kritiks: I'm not in the literature as much as some other judges, so you'll have to do a good job explaining the story here. Don't just read your frontlines and blocks: explain the arguments here. Remember: I don't know what you're saying, necessarily. If I don't understand the argument, it's basically impossible for me to vote for you. As for Affs - don't think I forgot about you - I think weighing your case impacts against their kritikal impacts is a solid strategy, and don't forget everything else you've learned in debate - no links, link turns, and the like can be powerful, but I do understand a lot of kritiks will link to... basically everything. So keep some offense with you to the end of the round. 

Counterplans: Go for it. As with most stuff, though, make sure key parts of your arguments are made clear: Net benefits, your mechanism, etc. I am sympathetic to affs when it comes to stuff like certain kinds of PICs, agent and consult CPs and the like, but that doesn't mean you can't run them. Just be prepared to defend yourself against theory. Perms can be powerful tools - but be sure to explain how they work as much as the neg has to explain their counterplan text and such. Also: tell me how you want to evaluate the perm. Test of competition? An advocacy? Tell me, or i'll just assume you're using it as a test of competition.

Disads: Not sure what there is to say here. Avoid contradicting yourself with certain kritiks and CP stuff. And... yeah. Disads, man. I've got 'em down, from politics to... really anything else.

Theory: Same as topicality, basically. I'm usually fine with negs having one conditional CP or K, when it gets to multiple conditional advocacies, though, I start to get aff sympathetic. 

Case: Affs - don't forget case is your most powerful weapon in round. Neg - if you're going to try to ignore case... be really confident in what you're going for. REALLY confident.

Don't be afraid of cheap shots and punishing the other team for bad drops, by the way. They're fun, and that's part of debate.

In the end, I like to think I will make my decision based on the flow, no matter the argument made. This is, however, my flow, so if I don't hear, if I don't understand, or if I somehow miss a key argument you're making and it's not on my flow, I can't vote based on it, can I? That also said - I don't fall asleep or goof off when I'm judging a round. If I missed an argument, you either weren't loud enough, weren't clear enough, or just didn't spend enough time reminding me of how important it is - i.e. don't mumble some aside and expect me to weigh it against their well explained, well evidenced arguments in a favorable way.

Finally - If you are going to ask me to vote based on my person - i.e. you want my vote to symbolize supporting this movement or this ideal, or something similar, I am going to vote based on my personal views on things, for the better or worse for you. So don't ask me to personally endorse racism or violence or feminism what-have-you. If you want to run an argument like Spark or Wipeout that's fine - as I said, to me, debate is a game. If you want to change the rules, though, and have me vote on my personal standpoints, then I will do just that.
  