
  I debated policy at Lone Peak my junior and senior year (10-12). This is my first year judging; I'm not a mommy judge, but I'm not totally comfortable judging the best teams in state. Solid 1st or 2nd year debaters are what I'd prefer.

Technical Things - I'm totally ok with speed, as long as tags are clear (i'll warn you if they aren't). Keep track of your own prep time, I'll time speeches and CX. For paperless teams, prep time stops when you hand the other team your flash drive or viewing laptop. If your computer crashes, I understand, and I won't charge you prep time in the hope that you'll have integrity and not prep further. I won't call for evidence unless the debate comes down to a dispute of one card (try to avoid that, those end up messy)

General Information - Aside from definitions of basic debate terms, nothing is assumed as true in the round, everything can be questioned. Any argument works (K's, performance args, irony args, etc), as long as they're explained in terms of why you deserve my ballot.

Aff - I'm not totally comfortable with this topic, but I'm still a human being with a brain and a debate background, so have a well-developed case and I'll love it. Aff make sure you don't shadow extend your 1AC, you need to spend a quality amount of time on case in the 2AC and 1AR for me to be willing to carry case args into the 2AR. Also, unless the CP is insane, going for a perm isn't something I enjoy witnessing, try to avoid it.

Neg - I'm ok with literally everything so long as you explain it well. I ran only a couple of K's in high school, but I knew them very well (Heidegger and Hillman mostly), so I don't know extremely out-there K's, explain in Cross X if you think it's a tough one to grasp. Explain DA's well, and have a realistic link story leading to your impact. In truth, I feel like 99% if not 100% of impact stories are overblown, so if your link story is weak and the aff points it out, I'll have a hard time voting for you on it. I don't love topicality arguments, most cases are usually topical....THERE IS PROBABLY A REASON THE AFF HASNT ALREADY BEEN DONE, POINT IT OUT WITH A DA.

Speaker Points - I tend to get bored with the same dry stuff, well-placed humor will definitely earn you some points. Being arrogant and rude (even if you're right), definitely costs you. Cross X is huge for me in terms of speaks.
  