
  Hello all!
Yes, this is the correct spelling of my name, pronounced "Joe" 

A little about me:
Competitively debated for George Washington High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Participated only in CX for three years. 
I've judged at a handful of Iowa/Illinois tournaments in Novice CX
I'm currently attending Utah State University in Logan, UT with a major in Social Studies Composite Teaching.
I hope to coach or start a debate program somewhere.
I speak Russian.

Paradigm:

T- I feel T can be an interesting debate, if debated accurately. If the T is in the 2NR, you better be going for it. I won't vote on "What sticks" The Aff though has a responsibility to acknowledge it, though. That being said, I will consider it as a voter.

The K- I'm a traditional Policy person. I will vote on the K if the Neg does an exceptional job of explaining it. I'm not too versed on abstract philosophies. I will vote more on Cap/FEM-IR/Sec K's if the link is explained. I will listen to framework and weigh impacts more than the typical judge. Aff cannot throw a hundred framework cards at the K and expect me to vote. Explain thoroughly.
Same goes for Critical Affs, explain as much as possible. 

CP/DA- In enjoy clash! These are the best arguments to listen to. Politics is a +. Do a good link story please, and Aff should capitalize on a bad one.

Theory/Condo- I will have an Aff bias if the Neg runs 10 CP's, I think a K, CP, DA and ample Offense/Defense on-case is an ideal debate round. I will value framework/theory on the Neg side too in the event of a critical aff.

Speaker Points- I always give high speaks in Novice rounds. Varsity is based on your individual performance. If you act like you were engaged in the round, were courteous and popped a joke or two, you'll get high 28's and low 29's. If you are a complete jerk, condescending to opponents and act like you are not engaged, your points will reflect that. I do not hesitate to give LPW's to jerk teams. I will make a note on the ballot and notify your coach if it was severe.

Prep- I expect Varsity teams to monitor their times. I will keep track, but will not notify you of speech time. If you say you are done prepping and are flashing, there should be no movement from anyone except the speaker. If people are prepping during flashing, I will doc those points. I will resort to flashing ends at the removal of flash-drive from computer if need be.

With that being said, ask me questions before the round!

Happy Debating!!

Счастливые дискуссионный!
  