
  High School: Channelview High School '08, I debated there for 3 years.I debated mainly in the houston circuit, I went to TFA and UIL state.
College: San Jac'09, University of North Texas '12 (sophomore)

I have experience with this I worked for UNTs mean green workshop this year and also I have helped coach at Channelview high school for going on 2 years now. I will evaluate any arguments you make in the round. Speed is fine as long as your clear and not screaming or whispering, if your going to fast you will be able to tell.

1. Kritiks: I don't like them, but I also don't hate them. I debated policy 90% of the time in high school, so I am not well versed in Ks. For me to vote on a K you need to give some good impact calc.

2. Disad: I love disads with specific links. Make sure you have a clear story and impact. I will listen to any disad spark, dedev, malthus, anything.

3. CP: I am fine with Counterplans and the theory that goes with them. Have a net benefit and solve for some part of the aff. Perms are fine for competition and advocacy, just win the theory debate. I do hate listening to conditionality theory, I will but I won't like you for it.

4.  T: I will vote on T if the neg wins the debate, I do think reasonability is a good answer as long as you win the theory. I will default competing interpretations on T. And T is a voter, don't waste your time reading you T is not a voter shell. Common sense is better than wacky definitions.

5. Case: Case debates are fine as long as you have some offense on the flow.

6. Theory: I will vote on theory that has an impact, I will vote on potential abuse if you win that it is a voter.

7. Performance: As a general rule I don't like performance, i don't want you to sing, dance or rap, its a waste of my time and ruins education.

I enjoy some jokes in the round, as long as you are being nice. Dropping an argument is agreeing with it. If your going to do something extreme like read cards that are really vulgar say something before the round. Don't yell over each other in Cx. Don't say you answered an argument if you didn't, I WILL notice. Also pronounce words correctly for example Hegemony, Iraq, Iran, Hegemon, tyranny, tyrant, nuclear.
  