
  School Affiliation: Garland High School, Southlake Carroll
Schools Attended: Garland High School

Value/Criterion: I reward debaters that clearly link everything back to their value premise. Of course, your value premise should also make sense, but as long as you can clearly prove that, then linking everything back is just a cherry on top.

Theory: I'm not a huge fan of theory debates. Just make sure that you are using it to COMBAT abuse rather than to BE abusive, and everythings cool.

The K: I guess I'll listen to it. If its logical, and you can run it. And i'll give it all the consideration I would give anything else. If you make sense then you shouldn't have too much to worry about. But, I'm not a huge fan of 2NR overviews either. Just explain arguments as they go down the flow, and clarify when necessary. Don't waste time.

Topicality: I understand that this is necessary to fully understand the resolution. So go ahead, but don't spend the entire debate on it. I mean, if your opponent is clearly being ridiculous then please hit it hard and I will go for it, but don't make it your whole argument.

Cool New Debate Things: Ok, unfortunately I don't have time to sit here and type out all of my thoughts on all of the new LD things that seem to be flowing like water out of CX and into LD. But, if you run something new and exciting, then I'll listen to it. Be logical and you should be fine.

Speed: I understand that speed is necessary in some cases. But spreading is ridiculous, and if you are speaking so fast that you have to use special breathing techniques, then I simply will not flow it. I will put my pen down and you will have no ink on the flow. The point of LD is to be persuasive. Spreading sacrifices that for lots of arguments, and thats just not in the spirit of debate.

General Debate: Please don't just say "extend x argument across the flow." Where should I put it? Why does it matter? Tell me where it goes and why its so important. Otherwise I have to decide for you, and I refuse to do that. Voters are cool. Your Value Premise is NOT A VOTER, it is what all your voters weigh back to, so don't tell me you win because you win the v/c and make that a voter on its own. Tell me WHY you won the debate. Not just that you did. "Even if" arguments are helpful. Don't be afraid to lose some arguments. You won't win everything that you put in your case, so don't be afraid to let some things go. Lots of almost won arguments do not even match up against three clearly won and linked arguments. So focus on the most important things, and let go of the rest. That being said, don't beat a dead horse. If you win an argument, and its clear, don't keep making the same argument over and over again. Debaters do this because they see that they have a minute left, and they know that they've covered everything. Don't be afraid to sit down early. I won't look at you funny.

Speaker Points: I'm not a huge stickler about speaker points. I start at the highest possible number and then go down when its absolutely necessary. When I debated, I couldn't stand it when I got a 28 and it ruined my 30 record. So unless you are just super unclear, ridiculously fast, or you are just so rude that it makes me uncomfortable, then expect pretty high speaks. If I give you lower than a 28, then you KNOW that something went wrong.
  