
   Lawrence Husick, Esq.
Conestoga High School, Berwyn, PA

Muhlenberg College, '80 - B.Sc. Environmental Chemistry
Washington College of Law, '83 - J.D.

I am a practicing intellectual property attorney (www.LWH-Law.com ). I both prosecute patents and litigate cases. I also coach for Conestoga, and have a child on the team who competes in speech events. I am also a Senior Fellow of the Foreign Policy Research Institute (www.fpri.org ) working in the Center on Terrorism, Counter-Terrorism, and Homeland Security. I teach graduate level courses at the University of Pennsylvania and the Johns Hopkins University.

I debated in high school and college, and competed extensively in IE in college in most events except interps.

I am a rational policymaker in judging rounds. I believe that policy debate is an educational activity intended to promote research, analysis, argumentation and communication skills.
Communicate ideas effectively, and you have me. Do anything that detracts from communication, and I won't put in a lot of effort to try to chase you down that rabbit hole. I am not shy about letting you know if you're losing me. If I put my pen down, you're in deep trouble.

Stocks: Do them right, and you'll be a long way toward my vote.
Impact Calculus: don't make me do it for you. You have to tell me why you win the round. Just remember: NucWar, Extinction, Pandemic - no rational policymaker believes in these or will ever vote based on them. Same for most absolute politics DAs - nothing (except this statement) is "all or nothing" and unless you have a link forged from adamantium, just try to be reasonable.
Theory: great, but let me know how it furthers the goals of debate as an academic activity. Same for T. Don't throw it as a time suck - use judiciously.
Kritiks: don't like them, but if your opponents can't respond, you might win by default. Just don't expect me to pick you up unless your opponents really mess up. In general, please try to debate the resolution. If your philosophical basis for the K did not live his/her life according to the philosophy (and I am talking Foucault) don't even think about it, since I will get interventionist -- you asked for it by running the K.
Counterplans: fine, but be prepared to argue both comparative advantage and theory competently.
Organization: Overview, underview, roadmap, number your arguments - the easier you make it for me to follow, the more chance I will understand everything that you say.

More questions, just ask.
 
Lawrence (at) LWH-Law.com

"It is, in fact, nothing short of a miracle that the modern methods of instruction have not yet entirely strangled the holy curiosity of inquiry."
 - Albert Einstein (1879-1955) - Autobiographical Notes
 
 
 “I may safely predict that the education of the future will be inventive-minded. It will believe so profoundly in the high value of the inventive or creative spirit that it will set itself to develop that spirit by all means within its power.”
 - Harry A. Overstreet (1875-1970)
 
 
  

  