
  Kwame Hyeamang
Father of Current Varsity LD Debater
2015-2016 Season
I'm conflicted from Apple Valley High School

TL;DR
I'm a parent judge. 
I'm will vote for the most intuitive, logical, and well-warranted arguments

To get my ballot you must do two things
1. Speak to key issues in your last speech
2. You MUST weighing- Compare arguments from an intuitive persepctive
3. Collapse to 1 issue in your last speech. Makes my job much easier and you will get higher speaks even if you don't win.
Conversational Speed is good
Be nice, dominant, and have fun!

Full Version
1. Come to round on-time. I shouldn't have to wait for you, you should be waiting for me. I understand things happen. Therefore, this won't affect your speaks or the decision but I would appreciate it if you were on time.

2. If I'm judging you, it's most likely not a circuit debate that being said, I don't understand the jargon and can't comprehend circuit speed. The expectation is that you adapt if you want my ballot. This may get better over the course of the season but as for now, ADAPT please.

3. I award speaker points based on strategic decision making, persuasive appeal, and speaking quality. I will average around a 28. A 29 means I think you should get a speaker award and break. A 30 means I think you will win the tourney. 26 and below is reserved for offensive practices.

4. I'm try to take a more tab approach to judging but I fairly unfamiliar to normal debate conduct so I'll always default to the better justified argument. I would prefer not to see God cases, Ks, and theory/topicality. I will have a really hard time evaluating these are arguments unless they're are executed near perfectly with 100% clarity on the function. Also, I'm a Pastor so I will completely disregard arguments claiming the non-existence of God. Also, I will not vote for skep, "intuitive bads" good arguments like racism, sexism, rape, etc.

5. Be nice to each other but have perceptual dominance. C-X is a great opportunity to do this so please try not to just ask clarification about things you can see in C-X.

6. You have any questions not specified here feel free to ask . Assume that I don't default to anything(presumption) unless you tell me.

This is written entirely by my son.
  