
  Name: Duane Hyland
School: Lake Braddock Secondary School
College: N/A

General Notes
I am debate judge, you are debaters. It’s your job to make arguments that persuade me to vote for you, and it’s my job to attend to those arguments as best I can. I have no preconceived notions of what an LD round should be like. That’s for the debaters to create. You create the round, I’ll judge it.

A Few Things to Keep in Mind
Is he qualified to Judge Me? I don’t know. Some would say yes, some would say no. My record as a coach has been modestly successful for someone who only started coaching LD in 2009. Since that time one of my debaters won NCFL Nationals, qualified for NFL Nationals twice, been in the out-rounds of a few circuit tournaments, and generally win more than they lose. Before coaching LD, coached policy debate for 16 years at both the college and high school level, and have coached speech and congress as well. In short, I coach this activity and I love it. I’m not a leading luminary, but I’m not a lay judge either.

Theory: Generally, I hate it. I hate it because most theory debates come down to “They dropped the #15 on my 20 point under-view on competition so I win.” Sure, you may win, doesn’t mean I’ll feel good about it. If it’s genuine abuse, go ahead and run theory, if it’s not genuine abuse do not waste my time. Examples of genuine abuse: Blatant non-topicality, racist, sexist or non-inclusive language, shady counterplans (Con-Con, Veto-Cheato, etc.) – these are abusive situations. All other things are, generally, whines.

DAs: If you run them that’s fine. Be sure your link evidence is good and that there’s an impact. Pay particular attention to the internal link story.

CPs: If you run them, please commit to a status, make sure it’s non-topical (I’m old school in this respect, topical counterplans have the shelf-life of a snowball in an oven in front of me), make sure it’s truly net beneficial, or at least be prepared to win that debate. Also, make sure you explain how the CP functions in the world of the value and criterion (while I’m a “modern” LD judge, I still believe it’s all about the values.”

Ks: Uhm, it’s LD, it’s all a K..lol. No, have an alternative! Make sure I understand how the alternative functions in the world of the value/criterion. I’m probably least likely to vote on a K before a DA, but I do vote on them.
Crystallization: I need you to do this – I prefer debaters who tell me how to vote in ways that make me want to vote for them. If you can’t take two minutes to explain why you win, what the world looks like if I vote for you, or why I should reject your opponent’s arguments. If you don’t, if you leave it to me, I will flip a coin.

Speed/Clarity: I am partially deaf and have a processing disorder on top of that. Speak clearly, at least on the tags, and if you go too fast, I’ll let you know. Don’t worry, I can flow you, just need you to speak clearly.

Ethics: I have a short fuse on ethics. IF someone challenges the card, you must be prepared to show why they are wrong in their accusation. I will read the card(s) and I will drop you with 0 speaker points you if you are found to be clipping, misrepresenting the author’s intent, or other such things. I will also report you to the tournament for whatever action the community wishes to take. Respect the community, education and debate – do not do those things.

Rudeness: I hate it! Don’t be. I have better things to do on a weekend than listen to teenagers be rude and disrespectful to each other. It will be punished.

Speaker Points: I start at 30 and go backwards by .5s. My normal range is normally between 27 and 28.5. I give very few 29s, and even fewer 29.5s/30s. I believe a 30 means something, and is not to be given lightly.

OK, so most of all – in 20 years you will not remember this tournament, or at least not this round. Have fun, be chill, be respectful, and be proficient and this will be a great round.
  