
  Nick Imparato
Senior at Baltimore City College
2016 TOC Qualified and Winner of 2015 National Championship of Urban Debate
Paradigm for 2015 Scranton Tournament.
General Stuff
I think that judge philosophies are often a misrepresentation of someone's true judging habits. Nobody is a clean slate; everyone has to interperet the round through their own social location and context. That being said, below I will outline some preferences and my experience with debate, but I will evaluate and listen to any argument in the debate (unless it is overtly racist, sexist, homphobic, transphobic, ableist, etc.) as objectively as possible. You do you. Please please read whatever you are the best at or the most comfortable with, I will vote for it if you win the round.
More Specific Stuff
Clash of Civ
I think most people would call me a K or "non-traditional" debater. I have read a non-topical, identity-based, aff virtually every aff round since my sophomore year. My strat vs a policy aff is also almost always one off queer pessimism. That being said, my strat vs K/non-topical affs is almost always framework with a series of disads on case. So if I am judging a framework vs K aff debate, I have been on both sides of this debate and hope that I would vote for whichever side did the better debating. In general, if you're on the framework side of the debate I am more persuaded by cede the political, materiality, whiteness/ivory tower based arguments than just fairness. Explain to me why your model of education is the best, not that you can't possibly get any education (because you did learn something from the 1AC, even if you think its strategic to say you didn't). If you're answering framework I'd appreciate specific answers and articualtion, not just your 10 point A2 framework wall. The same thing applies to you, explain to me why your model of education is best. 
Ks
I am the most familiar with queer pessimism/optimism/whatever, afro-pessimism/optimism/futurism, deleuze, and opacity. I am relatively familiar with anthro and cap mostly through hitting them so much (I read cap freshman year and have never read anthro). If you're reading something else (Focault, Baudrillard, Heidegger, Bifo, you get the idea) I'm down to judge the debate, just please explain. I'm not going to vote on a string of buzzwords unless you explain why the aff is bad and what you do about it. This same rule applies to the kritiks I am more familiar with. Just because I've read a lot of queer pessimism doesn't mean that you can win the round based on buzzwords or my prior knowledge. I'm not going to make links for you and if you don't explain why the alt solves I will be salty.
Theory/Topicality
If you're reading a 30 second shell, that's fine, just please be slow enough so that I can get every argument. If you make 10 points about condo in 10 seconds, chances are I'm not going to flow all 10, which won't help you win the round. Either go slow, or go fast and make fewer points. I'd prefer the latter as I think "condo kills decision making, next" isn't a claim with a warrant.
DAs, CPs, Policy Affs
So this isn't my wheelhouse. For JV debaters at Scranton, I know enough to judge y'all, read whatever you're the most comfortable with. I went to SDI for four weeks and went for politics and spending disads and read an aff about international law that had a plan text. Yes, I haven't had a debate about the politics disad since then, but I hope that I can judge it well enough. If you want to read 5 off, read 5 off, I'll flow the 5 off, and decide based on the flow, just like any judge.
Random Stuff 
My pronouns are he/his, but am fine with them/they. 
If you are being offensive, I reserve the right to dock speaks (just don't be a bigot)
People who have influenced how I see debate (in no particular order): Patrick Daniels, Daryl Burch, Willie Johnson, Amber Kelsie, Korey Johnson
If you have any questions please email me at: nicholasimparato@gmail.com
  