
  Hello all, I am Michael Ippolito and I'm senior at Georgetown. Though I coach Congress, I did do LD for about a year and a half as well in high school and have judged at various points throughout my collegiate life.. I'm pretty much up for anything you want to run except for Ks. Everything else is fine by me. The only other major thing I don't like to see in round is theory. If you feel your opponent is being overly abusive, I'll listen to it, but just running theory to run it is not something I want to see. In addition, I really really do not want to hear about time skew or education theory. If you wish, I can explain why in round.

I'm always up for philosophy (I really like philosophy) so in that regard anyone is fair game. Debate terms, flex prep, and pretty much whatever else the debaters want to do as long as it's within the rules and both parties agree, I'm fine with. In the interest of keeping tournaments running on time and prompt, I would prefer not to disclose unless the tournament either mandates it or explicitly allocates time between rounds for disclosure. 

In terms of how I vote, I'm a pretty standard judge in that you need to do your part to extend cards, explain and impact the cards each time. Simply saying "Extend (insert author)" isn't enough, just give me a couple sentences on why, the benefits you gain, and how it relates to the round. Framework is pretty big in my book, so that should be important to both debaters; however, I'm also fine with standards; you can choose your own framework, but you probably need to win framework to win my ballot. Other than that, I need to hear your warrants and links when you speak and argue; I want to know why you're winning, not why your opponent is losing; defaulting to one side is something I also do not want to do.

I don't want policy speed, but I can handle pretty solid LD speed as long as you slow down for the author, warrant, and impact. Those are the most important things I want to get down on the flow.

If you have any other questions, I'll be glad to answer before the round begins.
  