
  Background - I was a part of the Cypress Woods High School high school debate team being coached by Heath Martin and Jared Woods and graduated in 2012. I primarily did Congress; however, I can easily keep up with Public Forum debate as well. As for speaking events: Domestic/Foreign Extemp and Impromptu.
  
 

Preferences - I’m a very traditional judge. What I mean by that is I prefer arguments that are clear, concise, logical, and MOST importantly: warranted. Theory: I hate it. Unless there is actual substance abuse in the round, I don't want any theory in the round, and if there is such abuse you probably wont have to read a four part shell as long as you can just prove the abuse. What I mean by that is don't run frivolous theory where I'm put in a position where I'm forced to vote solely on theory. I want a lot of clashing of arguments, do not expect me to fill in gaps for your weak arguments—that’s your job as the debater. Be organized and if you are going to be unorganized make sure that you’re sign-posting so I know where I am on the flow.


Speed - It's been a while since I was involved in the activity so avoid going fast in front of me. If you're not being clear, I'll won't yell out clear or slow, it's your job to know if you're being unclear or too fast. 


Other - I’m completely fine with flex prep as long as both debaters agree to it. If one doesn't then no flex prep. Don’t be mean to each other. I understand aggressive debating but there comes a point where you cross a line and become a jerk. Do not cross that line or it’ll reflect badly on your speaks.


Speaks - Finally, as to how I value speaks (Which I'm not really generous in):

30 - perfect, you deserve to win the tourney.

27-29 - Average to Above Average.

26 – You lost pretty badly and didn't speak well.

Anything below that – Awful.

I'm a very relaxed judge. I look at debate as an extremely educational and simultaneously a fun experience. If you have any other questions, feel free to ask me if I judge you! :)
  