
  About me: 

I have two children, a boy and a girl. My daughter attends Carlsbad High in California and competes on the Speech and Debate Team. I am a doctor in private practice and my specialties are complimentary alternative medicine and life coaching. My husband serves in the Air Force (enlisted). My father is a retired criminal defense attorney and my mom practiced as a corporate law judge during her legal career. My parents are in their 80’s and still married. 

Why I judge debate:

I enjoy young people tremendously so please don’t be nervous. I want you to do well. I pride myself on maintaining an impartial “poker face” so you can’t see how much you inspire me, move me, enlighten me, and impress me. My goal is to give positive and constructive feedback that enables you to hone your skills as you continue to learn and grow. 

How I judge debate:

In order to be a judge whose decisions are solid and transparent I consulted the following
website: http://www.nationalforensicleague.org/aspx/nav.aspx?navid=27&pnavID=175 and borrow from it below to paraphrase it for you here.



A decision SHOULD NOT be based upon:

1. The merits of the resolution. The judge should not be influenced by prejudices in favor or against the
resolution.
2. Partiality. The judge should not be influenced by the reputation of, or partiality for or against, either of the competing teams, their schools, or coaches.
3. Preconceived notions on arguments. The judge should not allow his idea of what the best affirmative
or negative arguments or cases may be to influence the decision.
4. Personal preferences on debating style. A judge should not penalize a team if its style, either in case construction or delivery, differs from that which s/he personally prefers; but should evaluate all styles on the basis of effectiveness in winning conviction.

A decision SHOULD BE based upon the consideration of any or all of the following questions:

1. Skill in analysis. This includes not only the analysis of the proposition, but also analysis of the debate as it progresses.
2. Use of evidence. This includes the use of sufficient evidence and proper reference to source.
3. Validity of argument. This includes reasoning and conclusions drawn from the evidence presented.
4. Clarity of organization. This includes clear outlining of constructive arguments and easily followed
handling of refutation.
5. Effectiveness of delivery. This includes all matters pertaining to oral presentation with special emphasis upon extemporaneous abilities.


In Summary:


Feel free to visit the link I enclosed above so you can learn what I am looking for when judging you. Please know, I respect your efforts and admire your courage. If you have any questions please feel free to ask. 

Most Importantly, relax, breathe, and have fun. 

My Best, 

Dr. Jabin
  