
  I debated for four years at Torrey Pines HS (CA), three of which were on the circuit. I coach the Torrey Pines (Del Mar Independent) class of 2015.

Debate’s a game. I’ll vote on any argument I understand (provided you don’t start making personal attacks). I used to be fairly picky about arguments read by debaters, but I've found that the activity is much more enjoyable for everyone involved when debaters are creative in their arguments. There’s only 2 things that you really need to know:

1) I very rarely have trouble with speed, provided arguments are organized and labeled correctly. I have a tendency to not know where to flow arguments (or where you want me to flow them), as such I expect you to organize, number and signpost exceptionally well. If it helps, it's not the rate at which you read that's the problem, it's the rate at which you move between arguments. If you don't, you run the risk that I don't evaluate your arguments correctly.

2) Debaters reading advocacy texts (plan texts, cp texts, theory interps, alt texts, K links) NEED to slow down. These arguments need to be read at a slow, conversational piece since I expect that both me and your opponent should be able to have the same reading of the argument. And before you ask, yes this applies in outrounds too. They must be read twice at conversational speed (ie. “the plan text is [x]. I repeat the plan text is [x].”)

I do not put these two caveats here because I'm picky about how debaters make their arguments. I won't intentionally disregard arguments if you do not follow this format, but I put them here for your benefit, because I've noticed that when I make so-called "bad" decisions, they can be traced to one of the two former issues. However, I will probably unintentionally disregard your arguments if you do not follow this format.
Random side note: As a debater I had my own speaking issues, I'm incredibly sympathetic to debaters with speaking issues. I promise I will not penalize anyone for a speech impediment. All that I ask is that you tell me before the round, so I'm not caught off guard by it. If you feel uncomfortable telling me in person, feel free to message me on facebook about it or have your coach tell me.
Ask before the round if you have any other specific questions.
  