
  Former debater for Towson University -- 2007 - 2010
Former Baltimore Urban Debate League debater for Digital Harbor High School.
2 time qualifier for NDT -- 2009, 2010
CEDA Nationals Quarterfinalist -- 2010
Arguments: Revolutionary Aesthetic, Black Nation-State, Black Quare Theory, Black Liberation Theology, African-American Research Paradigm.

I'll be blunt. I like certain kinds of debates. I like debates that center on the people in the room and how their arguments are tied to the ballot and the "real world".

That being said, there are some things that are really bad to do in front of me:

1. Topicality and Framework - Unless you're beating the living crap out of the other team, I will NOT vote for T or FWK.
2. Wonky shit - If you like stuff like Post-modern theory and expect me to "get it" out the gate, you are mistaken. Unless it is explained in a way that translates into the context of the debate, I will NOT vote for it.
3. Fairness and Ground impacts - If you're using these as the terminal impact to the aff/neg, don't expect me to cry because you don't get your PX Link.

This does not mean you can't run your "traditional" DA's, CP's or K's. I just need you to be explicit in the warrants and why they are important.

Other than that, I like just arguments that are well explained. I'm pretty open to whatever debaters are thinking about or feeling.

I will also mention that I am a former performance debater for Towson. If you are doing performance debate, PLEASE EXPLAIN THE ARGUMENTS. There's nothing I hate more than really shallow performance debates. You will not win simply because you "perform". Take time to explain the warrants of the args during the rebuttals. 

I'm pretty simple when evaluating the debates at the end. I actively listen throughout the debate and don't try to "reconstruct" the debate at the end from the flow. I evaluate heavily off the impacts and will NOT do work for you at the end of the debate on impacts. The seminole thing I need during rebuttals is Impact Analysis. If there is no terminal impact to your strategy at the end of the debate...expect to lose.

CX is important and I flow CX. Speak wisely.

If I can not hear you, I will not flow it. Don't think I'm going to hear your Wilson 05 evidence if you're speaking too damn fast. I'm not a robot. Talk at a reasonable speed. It will affect your speaker points.

Just so it's clear...I'm a 22 year old, black, heterosexual, man from Baltimore City. I funnel all of my analysis of arguments through my social location. I'm not a "clean slate". If you say some crazy shit in debates with me in the back...you will be held accountable in your speaker points and possibly the decision.
  