
  Name: Matt Jackson

The number one thing before all else is that I see framework higher than contention in the debate. Secondly, Theory as a strategy is a peeve of mine. Please see the LD area below for details. Don’t ask me my experience or “qualifications” to judge. I find that massively insulting and believe that you should not smart-up or dumb-down a case based on the judge. I do not vote on disclosure. Finally, I don’t automatically judge misrepresenting evidence or a straw-man argument. You better call your opponent out on that for me to take it into account. Speaker Points is more than eloquence and clarity. It is how you present yourself from the first moment you walk in the door until the moment you walk out. Appearance makes a diffence, and wearing a sweatshirt/shorts/etc conveys disrespect for your opponents and your event in general. Please present yourself like you are proud to represent your topic, event and school. Other than that, see below. Spreading to the point where I can't follow will result in low speak scores and the comments on your ballot being written in Swedish Chef.

I judge LD and PF, so read accordingly.

LD

As I said above, Theory as strategy annoys me. Theory to address overt abuse is another matter. I will always grant an RVI on Aff and am flexible on Neg. RVI's, however, will not be automatic, but must be requested. Go as fast as you want, but I believe that debate shouldn’t be the realm of the elite who know how to how to decipher spread. I don’t give verbal or overt clues as to when you’re talking too fast…but a great clue is looking up and seeing me staring at you and not even concentrating on my flow. Saying something nasty will hurt your speaks significantly. Also, if you're going through a list of analytic arguments, slow down or give me pen/typing time so that I don't miss any of them, on the off chance that you decide to extend one of them later. Finally, I take cross examination pretty damn seriously. Oh….and remember that theory as a strategy will be punished.

PF

Anyone can judge PF. It’s basically speak the speed of a human being and don’t be abusive during crossfire, and I’ll judge based on the arguments rendered. Crossfire should be question followed by answer and then allow the other side to ask their question. Not a fishing expedition for some answer you are hoping you will get.Go crazy and throw some weird stuff out there as long as you can back it up with evidence.


Beyond all that. I’m a peeping Tom techie with X-Ray eyes.
  