
  Harvard/Centerville

I'll vote on almost anything. You should do what you feel gives you the best chance to win. But here are some things:
1) Evidence very rarely speaks for itself. Most of the time, arguments are necessary to tie a piece of evidence to the debate. As a result, I will vote based on the arguments debaters make, not the cards they read. Ideally, I would read zero cards after each debate.

2) Strategy is more important than technique. No argument is “dropped” if it is answered by an overarching meta-argument. That being said, packaging really matters. If debaters don't successfully communicate their strategic approach or its implications for other arguments, I'm not going to put things together for them.

3) I like to decide, not compromise. My decisions tend to be full of "the aff/neg won this" and not "the aff/neg won a risk of this". There are situations where risk is appropriate (when there are multiple warrants in a uniqueness debate, for example, with each side winning some warrants and losing others, there could be a risk that X bill will pass), but these are atypical. This means that there is not "always a risk" of a DA.

4) Side bias: in college debates in 2011-12, I was 22-19 for the neg. Pretty even, but I do think I have some fairly systematic tendencies, at the margins. I'm better for the aff in good debates - since the 2ar knows exactly what they need to beat to win their important positions. Conversely, I'm better for the neg in mediocre debates - since mediocre teams tend not to identify the crucial points in the debate until the final speeches, at which point important framing arguments (like impact calculus, for example) tend to be "new," and I have a pretty strong predisposition towards protecting the 2nr.

Theory
I don’t really think I have any strong side biases. However, I pretty firmly believe that the purpose of debate is education. This doesn’t mean that theory arguments about fairness are unimportant; they just need to be impacted in terms of education to be persuasive to me.

Framework
I think a lot of framework arguments are silly. The implementation of a plan is important, but the methodology, assumptions, rhetoric, etc. that underlie and justify a proposal cannot be separated from its content. The relevant question is the relative importance of each component of policy formulation. I think debaters should argue about the relative significance of all these components of an advocacy. I don’t tend to find theory arguments about how it’s unfair to think about representations even if they’re important to be that persuasive – see above theory thing. Similarly, it's hard to persuade me to consider representations exclusively and ignore the plan.

That being said, I think having lived in our nation's capital for a year will change the way I evaluate these debates. The government is a complex bureaucracy that has a lot of inertia and vested interests in the status quo. It's really hard to change policy, much less the fundamental way we conceive of policy decisions. This is purely speculative, but I think this means that I'll be a bit less eager to dismiss small but not paradigm-altering changes as insignificant.

CP’s
My predisposition is that a CP competes with the plan. CPs that compete by defining words in the topic but don’t compete with the plan text are, in my opinion, not competitive.

Another of my predispositions is that the 2NR needs to choose what their final position is. If the 2NR extends a CP that's worse than a bad plan, I'll vote aff unless instructed otherwise. "The status quo is always an option", to me, means that the 2NR can choose to advocate the status quo.
  