
  I debated for Lynbrook High School from 2008-2012, primarily on the national circuit.

Speed: I am fine with speed though if you are unclear or exceptionally fast, I’m less likely to understand and vote for your arguments.
Edit 10/7/13: Moderately fast is best in front of me. (<-------Seriously) Especially on a new topic, I'm not going to be able to flow unfamiliar arguments quickly. Slow down on the tag, number, etc.

Theory: I am fine with theory arguments though if you run them as a purely strategic consideration (ex: terrible T-shell as a time suck during the NC), I’m less likely to want to vote for you. RVI, no RVI, reasonability, competing interps- I will evaluate this based on what you justify. There are good arguments to be made in either direction. Absent arguments made in either direction, I will default to viewing theory as a matter of competing interpretations and not an RVI.

Speaker Points: High speaker points for good debate, good evidence, good arguments, good execution. Terrible speaker points if you are rude or offensive. I am a little disorganized and if there are many pieces of paper, I will probably get lost when you move to another layer of the debate so please signpost clearly. As a preference, I would rather hear a few developed arguments than a lot of... complete the sentence. >= 28 if you debated like you should clear.

Other Stuff:
Tell me how to evaluate the round and I am more likely to evaluate the round in your favor.

Critical stuff- is fine but don’t assume I know what you are talking about. Also, if you can’t/don’t explain what all the jargon means when reading the argument, then I won’t know what it means and then I won’t vote for your argument. If you are planning to confuse your opponent, know that you might lose the judge. If you can explain critical arguments well, run them and you will be handsomely rewarded with speaks.

Evidence- If the round comes down to competing claims about evidence, I will call for the evidence. Things will be more likely to go in your favor if your evidence is not powertagged, miscut, or of terrible quality. High speaks for good evidence, good evidence comparison.

Please ask me if you have more specific questions.
  