
  Introduction:

I was a 2A throughout my four years of debate at Grapevine High School. I like to think I was a successful debater. I went to Nationals my senior year, placing in the top 23 and achieved 9th speaker and got to Octas at the TFA State tournament. Never received any TOC bids, but was in two official bid rounds at Greenhill and Colleyville and missed breaking at the Glenbrooks and Emory on speaker points. I debated for a year at UNT, and for the second semester I was a 2N. We broke at Freshman/Sophomore Nationals and I got 8th speaker there as well as being in a break round at CEDA.


Specific Paradigms:

Frameowrk: I tend to default to a policymaker framework unless told otherwise. On Topicality and Theory I tend to believe it a question of competing frameworks unless told otherwise. I also tend to lean towards the notion that Topicality comes before theory or discourse arguments, but just like everything, that is very much up for debate.

Topicality - I have always been a "5 minutes of T in the 1NR kind of guy" and like to think I am well versed in topicality argumentation. The key is to impact and explain your arguments. Simply saying "they hurt my ground" is not enough. How do they do that? Why is doing that bad? What does the world of your interpretation provide and exclude? Why is this better? I need to see comparison and analysis before i vote on something, I will avoid intervening no matter what the deal is and I leave it up to the debaters. I usually default to a competing interpretations f/w unless told otherwise.

Disads - Pretty basic here. I really like turns case arguments. Give me comparative impact calculus please. This debate is pretty subjective, just make sure you explain your arguments.

CPs - I am fine with Counterplans of all types and flavors and am fine with all theoretical arguments. Once again I just need explanation. Everyone please just make logical arguments.

Kritiks - I am fine with Ks of all types and flavors as well. Impact your arguments, explain why the K turns case or is the root cause of the harms. Explain your alternative. I really want to know what the world of the alternative and/or the framework of the negative looks like as opposed to the affirmative. Comparative calculus and argumentation is the most important thing.

Theory - Same as T really, I also am a fan of cross-applications when it comes to T and theory. I don't often vote on potential abuse unless I am given some sort of really compelling analysis, I would prefer you only go for some sort of theoretical objection in one of three instances: a) they drop it, b) you have no other choice or, c) there is clear abuse.

Closing Comments:

While I will evaluate Ks I prefer policy rounds in general. I consider myself a policymaker. I would just like to make it clear that I, more or less, have no biases, will not intervene and have a wide variety of argumentative exposure. If you love reading Heidegger or Nietzsche or Lacan every single round, do not let me stop you. If you love debating more conservatively with a few coutnerplans and a bunch of disads, go for it. If you prefer to debate stock issues and the case, be my guest. I have seen most everything over my years in debate, have read arguments like Wipeouet and even Ashtar. My only requirement is that there is clash in round and that arguments are adequately explained. I will call for evidence if its warrants are called into question, or if there are some very crucial cards read in the round. Everything is up for debate. All in all I vote on literally anything and everything as long as I am given a coherent reason to do so. Happy debating.

Military Presence Topic Specific Judging History:

Grapevine Classic: Every Prelim Round (1-5) and every Elim Round (octas-finals) Total: 9 Rounds, 1 sit out
Houston Memorial: Every Prelim Round (1-4) and every Elim Round (quarters-finals) Total: 7 Rounds, 1 sit out
Grand Prairie: Every Prelim Round (1-4) and every Elim Round (quarters-finals) Total: 7 Rounds, 0 sit outs
Flower Mound: 3 out of 4 prelims and all Elims except for finals becuase it was canceled (octas-semis) Total: 6 Rounds, 0 sit outs
Colleyville: Every Prelim Round (1-5) and every Elim Round except for finals (quarters and semis) Total: 7 Rounds, 0 sit outs
Total: 36 Rounds this topic
  