
  I am a first year out at UChicago. My senior year, I broke at the TOC. I'm a 2a and a big aff hack.

If you make me laugh, I will be happy and reward you. If you have had the honor to meet the Marcus twins, please take advantage of it and make as many Marcus jokes as possible and you will be doubly rewarded.

I am a very truthful person. If you are on the side of truth and aren't technically behind, you will win. Truth over truth all day every day.

I'm fine with spreading. Just make sure to be clear, especially on tags, because I'm not the best flower.

I am a fairly kritical debater so most k's should be fine (with the exception of DNG and Baitaille). My areas of expertise are afro-pessimism, Agamben, cap, security, and other IR k's. The one thing I hate more than anything is big k jargon and giant paragraph long tags. Simplify it for me and explain. Cards are usually not necessary. Make the links as specific as possible. There is a caveat to going for the k. I am a big libertarian and think that the free market is the best thing to come to humanity so I find impact turns to things like cap/neolib quite persuasive.

I enjoy a good cp/da debate. Just know if you like to cheat with process cp's, I think perm do the cp is quite persuasive.

The politics disad is not intrinsic. Most disads have laughable internal links.

I hate topicality and framework with a passion. Please do not go for them unless the other team is substantially worse than you. I am more likely to vote for the politics disad vs a no plan k aff than framework. I will default to reasonability because I find competing interpretation ridiculous

On the flip side, I love aff theory. I've gone for everything ranging from no solvency advocate, no neg fiat to conditionality. 1 cp, 1 k is prob bad. 1 conditional advocacy is legit. If you want to go for it, just make sure its not a 5 second blip in the 2ac

If you take no prep time, you get a 30. If you successfully go for a TKO, you get a 30. If you show me your flow after the debate and its good, I will give you 0.3 points extra. Every successful Marcus joke will add 0.5 points.
  