
  Ben Jefferies
School Affiliation: Olathe North High School
Rounds Judged on this topic: 25+
Tournaments on this topic: Kansas State Debate, KCKCC, a bunch of Kansas circuit tournaments
Debate experience: four years in High School, about a year at George Mason, 2 years assistant coaching Olathe North High School

I tend to judge debate rounds from the perspective of a policy maker, impact analysis is very important to me. However, I will vote on whatever is made clear in the debate round, I will reject absolutely no arguments on face. Those arguments must be made clearly and there must be warrants, soundbites are subject to immediate removal from consideration.

Topicality: I tend to view as competing interpretations. I have a tendency to default affirmative on topicality because I end up washing the debate, to prevent this the standards debate needs to be kept very clear, both on the flow and logically. Spend time on it early if you are going for it later is my only advice.

Critique: I am not very well versed on critical literature and have a hard time understanding new arguments when they are spewed fast without coherent explanations. If I don't understand the argument I am very hesitant to vote on it. Run the critique, that's fine, just slow down a bit so the logic behind it is made clear.

Performance: Make it clear how it is a voter, I'm down with progressive arguments, they excite me.

Counterplans: I'll accept them all, I have no preconceived biases.

Theory/CP Theory: Theory debates are subject to the same criticisms I give to Topicality debates. Slow down, make the arguments clear or I will wash that debate so fast you won't know why you lost the round.

I debated mainly policy stuff, politics and counterplans. I did extensive research on some more non-traditional arguments like DeDev and Wipeout, and I like them, I think arguments that are creative are awesome and make for interesting debates. I debated in college and was moderately fast so I can handle it. I may be getting rougher on hearing, I'm not sure though, either way I will yell clear three times and then you lose, if in doubt, slow the fuck down.
  