
  UPDATE FOR LEX 2017: I haven't judged in a long time, so just go slower than you normally would

Background: I attended Byram Hills High School from 2011-2015, debating at the TOC my junior and senior year.

Quick version/general stuff:
I'll evaluate any argument as objectively as possibleSpeaking: Slow down on tags and card names, and if you’re numbering a lot of arguments, pause a bit before and after each point.Extensions: A dropped card doesn’t need a full claim, warrant, and impact extended, but I want at least some semblance of a warrant and an explanation of the card’s implication. For a card that was not dropped, what I need in an extension completely depends on what warrants are necessary to take out your opponent’s responses (and those warrants need to be 100% extended, obviously).Other notes: I’m really not a fan of huge dumps without any indication of how they interact with your opponent’s claims (this applies to theory, framework, and substance alike): this doesn’t mean that you can’t have a large variety of arguments on the flow, but just make sure that you always sign-post and tell me how each argument functions in the context of where you are. Also, if you’re obviously much better than your opponent, try to make the round as educational for them as possible. I’d really appreciate that.
Particulars:

Framework: I like framework a lot, but don’t use that as an excuse to run the most bizarre philosophy there is while expecting me to understand it. I’m open to more dense and obscure positions, but use common sense: if you’re going to run something more unknown/complicated in front of me, lower your rate of delivery and make your extensions in later speeches as comprehensible as possible. I also prefer fewer, well-developed justifications over underdeveloped blips

Substance: I love a good substantive debate, but I might not be the greatest judge in the world for dense evidence comparison.

Theory/T: Slow down on interpretations and keep these debates as organized as possible. Also, I won’t vote on a shell unless the violation was verified before or during the round. My defaults on T and theory are as follows (but I’m very easily persuaded the other way): drop the debater, meta-theory only precludes the theory it's run on, competing interpretations (reasonability needs a brightline, fairness > education, T > theory, no RVIs

Tricks: I'm all for them, but if I feel like any of the analysis you’re giving me when extending a trick is new, I’ll allow for your opponent to make new responses to said arguments in their next speech. I’m also partial to embedded clash between a dropped trick and other arguments on the flow, as long as the debater points this out when responding to the trick 

K’s: I'm fine with K's, but I'm not the biggest expert on critical literature. Just explain your argument like you would any other one.

Arguments I personally don’t like hearing all that much (but will still evaluate):
AFC/AECNon-topical AFFsDisclosure theory (unless it’s on a hyper-specific advocacy)
Things you’ll get lower speaks for:
being a bullybeing offensivebeing unclear even after I’ve yelled “clear” several timesa failure to sign postmocking your opponent in a way that's rude
Things you’ll get higher speaks for: 
quick overviews at the top of each rebuttal telling me why you’re winning the roundhigh-quality comparison between argumentsa good balance between line-by-line and big picture argumentationthinking on your feetbeing funnyfollowing my speaking guidelines above
  