
  Raul Jesus Cepin
Debating: 5 Years
Judging: 4
Bishop Loughlin HS/ St.Johns College HS - 2009-13
Binghamton University 2013 - Present

Go for what you're good at.

I love debate.
I am a big picture judge. Framing is always important. If you win a flow but don't win access to the flow you have lost the round.
Name the flows in the 1NC it makes flowing it easier.

I do speak about race, but this only increase my threshold for what I think good race debate is, so don't come into the round thinking that just because you scream white supremacy you are going to win.
if you want to strike me than do so.

Running FW is cool with me, just don't say anything crazy.


I once was a ptx and counter plan guy when I went to the ENDI so I can evaluate those debates. I also really like T args although I haven't judged this topic so that may hinder my ability to keep up.
1) I default to competing interpretation in those debates.
2) Condo is okay but debatable. 2 conditional world okish, 3 ehh prob not.
3) Impact calculus is a must. Also makes sure you are winning uniqueness stories.
4) I like ptx especially block spin. Read a cool scenario if possible.
5) Case defense is the shit, don't drop advantages.
6) I was a dedev guy (yes I have no soul).


Speaker Points - Obviously clarity thats a given.
Easy way to get me to give you high speaks...
1) evidence comparison is my favorite thing in the world people cut horrible cards and judges just accept them because the other team is not answering.
2) Nick Miller from Emory opened my eyes to CX "I fucking love crossx". Asking smart and specific questions will get you high speaks. Also this I considered speech time although I'm not flowing I am listening and paying attention.
3) flowing is a lost art, if you show me your flows after the round and they look decent I will increase your speaks by .2
4) the elders that taught me the way of thy speed told me that speed is the amount of arguments per minute. You can read every single card in your Dropbox but that doesn't mean your winning it just means you have more tools to use to win.
5) If you clip you drop I will give you three strikes than I will stop the round and go have lunch with my debate friends.
  