
  Even though my reputation is being very traditional, the truth is I like to evaluate the arguments on the flow, and will not rule out any argument type on face. 
A couple of things, though: Except in great rounds, I find that most rounds are on unresolveable on the flow without some judge intervention. I hate those rounds. I try to make the decision that requires the least amount of intervention on my part. If that doesn’t resolve it, I’ll tend to vote for the debater that I think did the most work or exhibited the most strategic and substantive smarts during the round. In other words, if the round is not resolveable on the flow, I will not have a problem voting for the “better” debater. I will not agonize over a messy round just to artificially make up a flow-based decision. You have to earn that. In most rounds, though, I find a decision usually pretty clear on the flow. Just do the work for me. 
In terms of how I evaluate the flow, this is what I usually do. I will try to look at the VOTERS given by both sides, and see how I evaluate them in comparison with each other. That’s where I start. If that resolves it for me, I’ll vote there. 
Random things: 

Theory. I will vote on theory, but I generally don’t like it. I think theory inevitably invites some arbitrariness and judge intervention. If a theory argument is clearly made, and the other side inexcusably mishandles it, I will vote on the theory argument that’s well developed. If I think the theory argument is abusive and ridiculous, and the other side does a relatively good job on it, I’ll tend to be forgiving and not want to vote on the theory. I don’t vote on blippy theory extensions. 
Discursive arguments. I tend not to like those arguments, or using the ballot as a tool. I won’t ignore it, but I just don’t like them. 
Presumption. I don’t have natural presumption. I will vote on presumption if it’s argued and clearly warranted. Otherwise, I’d rather vote for the better debater in the case of a “tie” than presuming one side or the other. 
Speed. I don’t like stupid speed, but I don’t mind people speaking quickly. Just don’t expect me to get it all. Just give me a chance to warm up so don’t go fast right out of the gate. 
  