
  Updated: Feb 5 2018. 
Highschool: Wichita High School East (KS) ’14
Background: Four year HS debater, 2 year NSDA qualifier, NSDA rd 9 and 10 finishes, 3rd in my 6A State, went to JDI and NUDI camps, and a bunch of other things you don’t care about. 1A/2N. I do not debate in college. 

The only tournament I judge each year is the Cal Invitational, but I've judged it my whole college time. Keep that in mind- I don’t know this year’s topic, and I may be unadjusted for speed, at least for round 1. This means I don’t know whatever abbreviations are being used, and what the “core of the topic” is, not that I believe in that as a concept anyway. I also have noticed that the advent of paperless debate has caused people to not flow - please do so. I'm flowing, you should be too. 

Asking which cards have been read or not counts as someone's prep or CX. Stealing prep annoys me. Flashing isn't prep time but don't steal prep during it. I won't time you though, time yourself. 

Overview
Tab judge. The words you say determine how I view the round.

100% no link no impact no probability etc does exist.
Speed is fine, I'll clear you if I need it (limited tolerance)
Aff should probably defend some version of the resolution.
Adhere to time limits.
Be smart.
Keep your composure.

Long version:
I appreciate well written and researched affs.

Delivery- Speed is fine, keep in mind I haven’t debated or heard a round in about a year. Go slower on procedurals/standards/analytics. I do not believe in muttering your cards- I want to be able to hear your cards as well, because I probably won't read them after the round unless I absolutely need to for some reason. If the card is unclear, it holds the same weight as an analytic. I’ll tell you if you’re being unclear, or I’ll stop flowing and put my pen down if I have to keep clearing you. Some of the Berkeley rooms can be pretty echoey, so keep that in mind. If its not on my flow, it wasn’t in the round. Clarity is better than speed. If you're going slow for me and I can keep up, it'll probably be obvious- I'll sit and flip my pen or something.

Disads and Case Debate- 
A good case debate, or case specific links are appreciated. Case debate is undervalued nowadays.

CPs-
I cut a lot of the most abusive PICs. Doesn't mean you don't have to defend theory. 

Topicality- 
I read a lot of T in highschool. It's a pretty interesting thought construction. I'm willing to vote that something that probably should be topical isn't if you win the argument. I default to competing interpretations. I’m not sure what reasonability is in terms of interpretations. If you want me to be reasonable, please explain what that looks like. I view reasonability as a way to evaluate standards, not a way to evaluate whether your we meet fits the interpretation. I don’t know what the core of the topic is, or common affs, and I don’t believe that either of those make an aff topical or not. Potential abuse is probably not a voter. 

K Affs- 
I really don’t like completely unrelated affs. I’ll listen to a non-traditional aff, but I do think it should have some tangential relation to the resolution. Don’t dance around in CX because avoiding explaining to the neg means avoiding explaining to me. 

Ks- 
I probably haven’t read whatever literature you’re reading. I’m fine voting on “You didn’t make an argument because I don’t understand.” I think a lot of Ks lose out on alt clarity. I read Virilio, Coloniality and Neolib in highschool, and my partner read Nietzche.

Annoying Procedurals-
I was that guy who ran plan flaw and won on it. Do as you want, be good at it, and use it strategically. Stupid arguments like this can at least get you leeway somewhere in the round. Be smart. That being said, 1NC reading 5 procedurals just as time sucks is annoying. Read things that you can actually use somewhere in the round. Give me pen time if you're belting out procedurals.

Other style:
Don't tell me I can do things like call for cards. I'll call for cards if I need it.
Ask me if you have any other questions.
  