
  Fangwei (Berber) Jin
Edgemont High School '16
Stanford University '20 (not debating)

Email: bjin162@gmail.com

High School Debate Experience: I debated all four years of high school and broke at the TOC my senior year after receiving 7 bids during the season. In terms of my argumentative background, it might help to know that my experiences at the Michigan and Northwestern camps shaped much of my vision for debate. I ran plan-based AFFs my whole career, with both large extinction-based impacts and more structural impacts as well. On the negative, against non-plan AFFs, I mainly read framework, though I was comfortable going for a variety of identity-based and policy Ks in addition to more traditional DA/CP strategies.

Debaters who have influenced me the most: Alex Miles, Sara Sanchez, Jeff Buntin, Vikram Kohli, Brian Manuel, Zach Mohamed

Meta-Level: I will do my best to withhold my ideological predispositions as I enter into a round. That being said, I believe in the pedagogical benefits of switch-side debate based of the limits established by the resolution. However, I do think that many non-plan teams have thought more thoroughly about their relationship to the resolution than many more policy-based teams, and I am more than willing to vote against framework. The best debates are ones that involve fruitful clash stemming from specific strategies developed by the negative. I believe that nuanced warrant resolution is one of the most important qualities that a debater can garner from the activity, and debaters that reflect a high level of critical thinking during the round will be rewarded through speaker points.

Tunnel vision lost me many of my biggest debates in high school, and I believe that developing the ability to be intellectually flexible and adapt to the contingencies of the specific direction a debate takes it another extremely important pedagogical benefit of debate.

Though specific strategies are awesome, generics are totally underrated. Don't underestimate your ability to beat the best teams with the most generic topic strategies. 

Framework: I think there is a distinction between framework and topicality, and such a distinction matters when it comes to approaching different types of non-plan AFFs. Impacts need to be thoroughly fleshed out and implicated. In my opinion, the more compelling FW impacts stem from arguments based off limits and switch-side debate, rather than the content of debating about policy. Affirmative teams often get away with winning framework debates by luring the NEG into defending more than they have to; if AFF teams are able to get away with this, more power to them. 

Kritiks: I'm generally more familiar with identity-based and policy-based kritiks; I am more unfamiliar with and skeptical of post-modernist kritiks. Kritiks can be an incredibly powerful argument, but too often debaters on both sides lack a thorough understanding of the complexities of such an argument. Debaters need to explain the implications that winning framework have for the rest of the debate (those implications can vary depending on the type of kritik), contextualize generic links to the AFF (preferably with turns case and external impacts), and also thoroughly explain the alternative. I believe that, for many kritiks, if the negative convincingly wins a FW argument against plan-based action, an actionable alternative is not required.

DAs: Case + DA strategies were my favorite in high school. I find the best debaters are ones that can poke logical holes in AFF link chains while making a convincing case for the status quo. To be honest, it's a bit disappointing that teams have shied away from what I believe to be the bread-and-butter of negative debate strategy. Obviously, impact calculus is important, but garnering turns case arguments and impacts off the link can be incredibly smart and sneaky.

Counterplans: Specific and well-researched counterplans are awesome. I'm agnostic on most theory questions -- if you can articulate why conditions CPs and six conditional arguments are legitimate, all the more power to you. Technical debaters that remove 1AC offense through sneaky CPs may be annoying for AFF teams, but if you aren't able to launch a legitimate theoretical attack on such strategies, you shouldn't deserve to win. That being said, the theory debate is probably slanted to the AFF for the more ridiculous usages of CPs that have proliferated in recent years.

Judge Intervention:
Clipping is bad. Don't do it. You will lose and get zero speaker points.

Miscellaneous:
Be nice. Always remember that debate is an extracurricular activity. Don't say offensive shit. Other than that, have fun :)

If you have any questions, feel free to email me before the round.
  