
  Edward Jing
Unionville High School '14
University of Pennsylvania '18
Conflicts: Unionville High School

Background:
I debated for Unionville High School in Pennsylvania from 2010-2014. My main event was LD, but I also participated in PF. I competed primarily in local and regional circuits, but also competed at several circuit tournaments. I currently volunteer as a coach, tournament director, and judge for public schools in the School District of Philadelphia through Penn for Youth Debate, a nonprofit student organization at the University of Pennsylvania.

Overview:
I was primarily a traditional LD debater in high school. I'm fine with speed, but you'll probably want to slow down to around 70% maximum speed, especially if it's the first round or two of the day. SLOW DOWN FOR TAGS. I'll vote for any argument that isn't explicitly racist, homophobic, sexist, etc. If you're running a CP/DA/K/etc. in LD, please provide a clear framework with which to evaluate the round. I'm impressed by smart, analytic arguments that suggest that you're a human being instead of a card-reading automaton. I do not default to assuming that cards are better arguments than analytic arguments. I will ultimately make my decision based on the flow, but if you want high speaks, I recommend focusing on your delivery as well. Crystallization is key. If you don't give me voters, you're leaving my decision in the round up to chance.

Theory/T:
A well-articulated and clean abuse story is key if you want my vote. Many theory arguments can be answered quickly and easily with smart counter-interpretations and good weighing. It's up to you to decide whether or not you want to run it. SLOW DOWN ON INTERPRETATIONS. I default to thinking theory is a reason to drop the argument. You will need a *very* strong case to win my ballot on theory alone, so going all in on theory isn't advisable.

K:
I'm much less literate in these. I know the stock Ks, but it's been awhile since I've actually heard/judged one. I prefer Ks that link into the resolution and that have the alt explained extremely well (or if there is no alt, why you have uniqueness). I have to understand the advocacy to vote for it. I don’t think that just by nature of someone reading a role of the ballot that it automatically precedes every layer of the debate. Like every other argument, comparison and a weighing metric is integral to my understanding of it’s function in the round.

PF:
If you're competing in PF, please follow NSDA rules. That means no counterplans, spreading, etc. My vote will depend on who I feel has better arguments, and speaks will depend on delivery. That being said, the two are not mutually exclusive, so your best bet is to focus on both.
  