
  I debate CX in high school for three years, and have been judging for the last two years. I debated at Newman Smith HS, but choose not to debate in college.
I don't enjoy deducting speaker points, but I will if you don't sound confident and have a loud strong voice. I think this is important in the round and you need it to have an effective debate. Without a strong voice you don't sound confident and as a result you tend to sound like you don't know what you're saying or talking about. 
I hate paperless debating, so if you are going to them make sure that you know what you're doing, that your laptop is charged, and that you can quickly pull up evidence if needed. I don't like having to wait around for speeches to be flashed over, so don't waste my time with that, because if you take too long I'll start deducting prep time for it.
CX-I believe this is for your own clarification, so while I do listen, I'm not flowing it and I will not vote off an argument made in this round, so if a key argument is made, a framework for the debate is set, or something big is conceded make the argument in your speech and then I will flow it/write it down.

T-All affs must be topical, so rarely do I vote on T, unless it goes dropped or the aff is obviously not topical. I don't like hearing a long abuse argument either, the debate should be debated instead of each team complaining about how they're abused or not in the round. The T argument also needs to be relatively reasonable for me to vote off of it.

DA-All DAs must have an arguable link and must have an impact. Without this the DA doesn't stand in the debate; although it is the job of the affirmative to point out when part of the DA isn't there or when the DA doesn't apply in the round. If the affirmative doesn't do this then it makes it harder to vote in favor of the aff.

CP-The CP must be competitive with an obvious net benefit. The status of the counterplan should be known, and the affirmative must for it otherwise there it is up the negative to decide later in the round. PERMS run with counterplans are fine, but the aff needs to be careful when running them.
Theory-I'm not a big fan of theory, so don't spend the entire debate on them. It's a waste of time because at the end of the day these debate rounds are about the arguments and not the theory about running them.

K-I don't enjoy judging Ks in the round, so if you are going to run it you must know what you are saying and be able to defend and explain it. As a general rule they aren't my favorite to evaluate in the round, but if they become a major voter I will begin to loot at them. 
Aff-The aff should be defended in the round and the debate should, to a point, revolve around the aff. The negative arguments should link to the aff and when the aff is arguing them they should be argued in relation to the 1AC. The aff should be able to argue why the 1ac is competitively better, and the neg should do the same for their arguments.

Generally I like an impact debate throughout the round as well as good direct clash (balance of offense and defense). At the end of the round I should understand how your arguments weigh in the round and how they apply to the round.
Lastly, have fun with the debate!
  