
  About Me: I debated policy all four years of high school at Marshfield and traveled mostly national circuit my Jr and Sr year. I cleared at national circuit tournaments as well as at NCFL. I also went to NDCA. I now debate at Missouri State.

Preface: I prefer CP DA debates. I'm okay with K's I just don't know the lit so if you chose to do this in front of me then EXPLAIN it. Projects: I enjoy watching them as a spectator and think they have a place in debate just not in front of me as of now.

I think debate while yeah it's for fun I also think it's educational and everyone should be involved that wants too. With that said if you're clearly hitting a team that is new to circuit style and you just speed as fast as you can as if you were debating at the TOC I'll considerably dock your speaks. I think it makes you look lame and just bad in general it also gives me the impression that you're scared of the other team and can't just beat them on their level.

I enjoy development of debates. If you do this I'll be your biggest fan.

T: I default reasonability but am willing to listen competing interps if you give me a good reason too.

Theory: I like listening to theory debates but exception Condo if they're reading 1 cp and 1 k and you go for condo bad against it I'll probably laugh at you. Other than that I feel open to any theory.

CX: My favorite part of debate. I listen very closely to it and flow important things of it. I think cross can definitely make you win or lose a debate. But don't be a jerk in it. BE NICE.

DA: POlitics is my favorite but I also enjoy very specific scenarios.

Backfile checks: LAME. LAME. LAME. I mean if you can't win on new lit and just rely on spark or ocular-centrism you should probably start doing work.

Paperless: It's my first year doing it so I'm pretty lenient on time for jumping and computer problems but don't take advantage of it. I have no problem making you take your prep etc if I think you're taking advg or changing your speech etc.

If you put 30 pages in one file and skip around on it A LOT you fix it before cross for the other team.
  