
  Background:
In High School I primarily debated LD and a little bit of Public Forum and CX. However, I now compete NPDA/NPTE (college extemporaneous policy) style debate at Snow College. I have been judging primarily CX on the High School Level since 2011.

My preferred debate style is specific Ad’s/DA’s, however I do love the K debate when it is ran well. Keep it specific, and make sure they link.

Speed:
I think debaters should only go as fast as needed to win the debate. Don’t go fast for the sake of going fast. Make good arguments and if you need to go faster to cover them all, go for it. That being said I’m good with speed but if you are going fast be loud.

Speaks:
I award speaks between 24-30. If you are extremely rude or offensive I will give you lower ones… (no duh.) To get higher speaks in front of me be involved in your debate! Be excited and make good arguments. If you are not interested and are bored, I’m going to have a hard to being interested in your speech as well. So have fun! Crack jokes and don’t be afraid to make arguments without cards. Cards are great and all, but you can make arguments and analysis that makes logical sense without a card and I’ll most likely buy it.

Theory:
You’re going to have do the work to get me to buy any theory argument. If it’s a canned T or Spec argument I won’t vote on it. Make it clear with your standards and voters why I should vote on it. I will vote on it if you make it apparent why I have to.

K’s:
I think the K debate is something that if run well is amazing. But don’t assume I know what the K is talking about. I will not make the arguments you didn’t that you need to win the debate. Explain to me clearly what the K is saying, how they link, (Don’t run if they don’t link!!! Please!) and what the implications are, and have an alt that solves. Explain why it solves.

K Aff’s:
I like more topical K Aff’s, if it’s not topical justify why it doesn’t need to be topical with theory and framework.

CP:
I think CP’s are a critical part to the debate. If you are not running a CP you are running status quo and you ought to tell me why status quo is fine and nothing needs to be changed. I prefer CP’s to be mutually exclusive but if they are net- beneficial I will vote for them as well.

DA/Adv:
Whether running a DA or an Adv most debates I’ve seen have lacked in the Uniqueness scenario. When running an Adv the Uniqueness should state that status quo is bad and your link should be saying your plan fixes it. On the DA the uniqueness should be saying status quo is great and the link is that the affirmative plan is going to ruin it. On the DA I like the structure of Uniqueness Link Internal Link Impact, and the Adv I like Harms Impact Solvency, but I am ok with Uniqueness Link Internal Link Impact on the adv to.

LD: If you are running DA/Adv to your case, make the link scenario clear.

Policy Under view:
I think that policy is a very strategic event. I want to see some on case argumentation as well as off case. You should be making turn arguments and you should be doing some impact calculus in your last speeches. I love the impact debate so make it clear why your impact outweighs. Also collapsing and going all in on one argument is something that I wish I saw a lot more on the policy circuit in high school. Strategy. Just do it.

LD Under View:
I think that LD is amazing when ran well. That being said I really don’t want to watch a huge debate over definitions or your entire rebuttle speech on just the values and the standards. Use your contentions (or adv and da’s) to take down values.

Overall Under view:
I will vote on what you tell me to vote on. Write my ballot for me and I want to see some actual argumentation. Don’t restate your case or your contentions, once past the first speech there should be some rebutting happening not restating. As my good friend once told me: Defense wins football games, offense wins debate. Make good offensive arguments that are logical and sound.

Feel free to ask any questions.
  