
  East Side High School Assistant Coach
Debate Four years at American History High School and Currently debate at Rutgers

My argument preferences shifted from policy oriented arguments in High School to solely kritiks in College. With that being said i'm comfortable with both sides of the spectrum.

Speaking: I'm fine with speed however I believe that clarity is more important than trying to go as fast as you think you can because if an argument is not on my flow then that argument for me does not exist.

Kritiks: I love great Kritik debates! I think it is important to explain what the Alternative is and how it functions. In addition to this a clear link story is probably better than a rehashed link that is probably applicable to every single resolution. Finally I believe that an impact calculus is a most. There need to be an explanation as to how to impact functions or operates in juxtaposition with affirmative.
Also i'm probably not the best judge to have if your running kritiks like baudrillard ,deluze, or other high theory kritiks because i'm not that familiar with the literature. However do not let that discourage you from running these arguments, I just need to hear a clear explanation of what the link and the alternative is.

DA: I usually have an offense defense paradigm when evaluating disads. What this means is I need to have a clear explanation as to how the disad turns the aff or if you're aff there needs to be a link or impact turn.

CP: First off usually if the CP text includes the entire plan text it probably isn't competitive. I used to go for some of the shady multiple plank CPs and the conditions CPs. I enjoy hearing these counterplans as opposed to a counterplan that merely changes the agent or actor. I need to know what the net benefit is and how the counterplan avoids it. Theoretical Counterplan arguments if you go for them also has to be impacted and if it is in your 2AR probably the only thing I want to hear.

T: First I usually default to competing interpretations. It is always important to impact the standards, i.e. tell me why you interpretation is best for education.

Non Traditional/ Performance aff: These are the debates that I engage in. The only comments I have is don't be shifty!!
  