
  Background:

Currently head coach at Tualatin High School, Tualatin, Oregon.
Personal debatography: former policy debater and IEer.

Policy: For me policy is the most definite style of debate. I want to hear analytics and clear arguments. I despise debates that end up being about the “educational value” of the debate and nothing to do with the topic itself. Definitions are great, but shouldn’t take up more than a minute of your 1AC. I like counterplans (when done well). For NEG, if you’re running Ks, keep in mind that I need you to be as specific as possible with how they link to your case, otherwise I will drop them. *Although the National rule is different, I do not count flashing as part of your prep time.

LD: Most of my students compete in LD debate, so it’s an event that I am subjected to often. I like creative values (e.g., political legitimacy) instead of the standard ‘utilitarianism.’ I tend to vote on who solves which value moreso, so if you can win on both competitors’ values, you will win the debate. I really appreciate when NEG realizes that they don’t have to prove that their value is better, but simply define that the AFF’s value cannot be exclusive (you’ll usually get my vote if you say this).

Style:
My preferred debate style is probably specific Ads v Das, but I also can appreciate strong framework debates if they are run well.


Some specifics:
Speed:Spreading is fine, just give me clear taglines and warrants.

Theory:Depends on your T—I’m not usually swayed by them. AFF has a pretty heavy burden if you’re going to present me with this argument and win on it.

K’s:To reiterate what I said above, if you are running Ks, I need you to give me solid links or I will drop it.

CP:I really enjoy counterplans that are done well. If you can propose to me a world that is better than the AFF’s and has substance, I will vote on it. I also tend to accept perms, but only if you use them correctly.


As a last note, I tend to write novels on my ballots, so I will give you a pretty hearty explanation as to why I voted one way or another. I am always okay with going over my paradigms so just ask at the beginning of your round. 
  