
  I debated three years at Millard North high school (class of 1999 - Omaha, NE) - mostly midwest with some national tournaments.

In college I was highly active in the local judging community and was even awarded the Ulrich Award for my assistance and dedication to the novice community. I judged sporadically post college and was moderately current with the community.

Judging preferences:
I prefer argumentation over performance. Performance in a round has some weight but I know when it crosses the line and becomes a whole other activity I'll know. You'll know I know by the look on my face or the doodles on the ballot.Topicality is important, but speeding reading through thirty blippy points does not create discussion.Try and be semi presentable. I decree if there are fishnets to be worn in (and or around) the round it shall be me, and me alone.I would prefer not to read evidence after the round - that would mean be clear and explain the warrants of your cards. (This also means pulling through card by a tag alone is not regarded highly.)I expect the seven types of inherency to be upheld and discussed in the round as well as clear cut funding and enforcement mechanisms... naw - just kidd'n. A decently structure case is great though!Impact calculus is enjoyed - probability, time frame, and magnitude.Kritiques are okay if they are given the due diligence required. Speeding through Bauldrillard cards is not a preferably way to engage in philosophy.Speed is tolerated but if I yell out 'clear' you should modify your speech skills to best clear up your communication. If that means: slow down, enunciate, or spit more then make that adjustment. End game - if I can't intelligibly hear the argument I will not have it down in which case you may lose the round (and that would be your fault).I have been told my zodiac affinity is for policy maker.Tag team cross-ex is not a big issue but I expect the person up there to respond the majority of the time. I mean come on - this is one of the fleeting moments you lock swords with the opposing side so make the most of it!
I am certain you will have questions before the round and that's fine... well unless I have *that* face on.
  