
  Debated at Bellaire High School and currently debate at the University of Houston.
if you have any additional questions I can be reached at clarkjohnson821@gmail.com

A couple of thoughts before I address specific arguments.

I usually prefer tech > truth, but I can be persuaded otherwise especially if the "tech" you're behind on is far fetched.

I tend to find myself defaulting to a policymaker more often than not, but mostly due to a lack of framing of the round, start weighing impacts and explaining to me how I should be looking at the round ASAP.

I would like to not have to call for much evidence, that being said debate is debate and reading cards is becoming increasingly necesarry as more and more people using paperless ignore flowing and just look at speech docs. I will reward you for weighing and reading specific pieces of evidence and picking it apart as opposed to just relying on blocks to answer opponents arguments (not that blocks aren't necessary just that I like it when you aren't just reading the same generic answers to every politics disad and consult cp, as much as I hate to say it those debates can get boring)

I'm not as familiar with identity politics, I only debated IP once in highschool and have not debated it much this year, I have been working a lot to learn and understand it more, and I am absolutely willing to vote on it, but am still not as versed in IP as I want to be.


T: Not a huge T guy, but that's probably because I used to read questionably topical affs that lost on T alot and most of my experience judging T debates are at locals which are not fun. I like it when debaters go beyond limits, ground, etc.

For the neg - Topical version of the aff is very important, in round abuse is important, if it's just a time suck you should at least attempt to use it to get links and stuff.

For the aff - Reasonability, even if you don't win it's how the T should be evaluated, don't hesitate to use it as defense against their interpretation, caselist is important.

DA: These are cool, good spin > sepcific ev > generic ev. If the 2nr is da/case winning that the status quo won't go up in flames without the passage of the plan is a must.

CP: These are fine as well. This next part goes for k's as well - figure out some sort of net benefit to the perm as opposed to just the perm avoids the disad.

Consult and delay counterplans are cheating and perm do the counterplan is probably not severance in these instances.

K: I think most affs should be able to be weighed against the K in some way, I think it is up to the neg to prove the aff shouldn't be. That being said I don't like traditional framework debates I would prefer it if the debate doesn't come down to it. Not as familiar with some of the more lefty K lit. 2nr (and 2nc to some extent) explanation of what the alt world would look like, how the alt solves the links to the aff, and how the alt solves the impacts are necesarry, I won't vote on the K if I don't get a clear picture of what it looks like.

K affs: the don't like traditional framework debate still holds true, BUT normal T still applies, your advocacy should in some way be related to the topic, if all you do is mention some aspect of the resolution in one card in some random way I don't think I'm the judge for you, I like K affs, I like kritiks of the resolution, but the key phrase, is of the resolution, you should be able to defend how your aff relates to the resolution at the very least.

Theory: Default neg and reject the argument, you should give me reasons to do otherwise, don't expect me to be willing to vote on it if you don't slow down and explain your objection, most debaters spread blippy blocks that make it difficult to flow and evaluate, if the 2nr or 2ar want to go for theory in some form or fashion you're going to have to do the work, saying they concede severance perms bad for 10 seconds at the top of your 2nr even if true is not enough to get me to vote on it

Condo - 2 conditional worlds and the status quo is fine, though if they're contradictory in some way I'll definitely lower the bar.

Severance - perm do counterplan is probably severance unless the cp is cheating or just a dumb cp, otherwise y'all should explain to me why it is or is not severance.

Counterplans bad is probably not a reason to vote aff.
  