
  Background: 4 years of high school policy debate at Johns Creek High School, I am unfamiliar with the topic, and haven't debated/been involved in debate in a couple of months so I'm sure my flowing skills have declined, prioritize clarity over speed

Argumentative Biases- I do not have what I would consider to be any incredibly strong preferences or biases. I am probably a better judge for you if you are a policy debater, simply because that is what I have more of a background in, but don't feel like you can't run a K in front of me. I ran kritical affirmative most of my junior and senior year, so I'd say I'm not biased against that sort of thing. I just don't have a super strong background on all the different philosophers, so if you know your argument is a bit off the beaten path, give me a clear, intelligent explanation and we'll go from there. At the end of the day, I want you to run the arguments that you feel you can create the most interesting debate with. 

Voting issues- Don't drop them. I am not trying to vote on stupid, nit-picky voters, but if there is a reasonable explanation as to why this voter matters and its unanswered, I'll vote on it. 

Topicality/ Theory - I'm not one of those people who dreams of judging T or theory debates at night. They're usually messy, and awful to decide upon, but I won't automatically vote against you or for you. You're going to need to prove abuse though, and as a former 2n I'm not inclined to believe that one conditional cp is worth voting a team down on. 

Speaker points- play well with others, you don't have to be their best friend, but if at the end of the round I feel like you've been disrespectful of your opponents, it will show up in your speaker points.

Paperless- unless the tournament rules say otherwise, prep stops when the flash drive leaves your computer, however it will continue if you partner continues to prep while you are jumping.

At the end of the day, I try to let most things get resolved by what happens in the round. I want good impact calculus and clear reasons why I should vote a certain way. The easier you make my decision the happier I'll be. Any other questions, you can just ask me before the round starts.
  