
  1. judge intervention is terrible and inevitable - i am starting to theoretically be persuaded by just an inclination that this statement is true; I'm not saying that this is an argument i will vote for, on the contrary im just saying; without even the slightest hesitation judges are just so damn ready to pull the trigger for the team with the most bids, best seeding, without ever actually adjudicating rounds as they go down. just a thought 
2. T - i will vote on topicality. It is persuasive when you aren't going for a shitty fairness impact argument, extensive use of your ev and the debate game field around you would be useful in generating some interesting offense for me. Reasonability is not that hard to win in front of me, if you are wondering my threshold for the affirmative. If its germane to the topic, i definitely need a better limits debate or im just stuck wondering why the aff can't just end up topical by the end of the 2AR. TVOTA is persuasive only in context, your "we only have to win that our model is sufficient" doesnt make a light bulb go off in my head - more like a 45 tbh 

 Impact Framing is so important - stop reading your coaches blocks, and be creative for once - bring life back to debate 

skills are meh but okay - i'll vote on it 

predictability is interesting - I am not persuaded by "the entire research done by this team was in its entirety always unpredicatble" and now debatability is where my ballot must fall for the trials of this war to be over. functionaly makes no sense if you are providing an interp that thoroughly suggest that they could do the aff just not the way they did to begin with. better on extrapolating why their failure to meet your threshold of limits sort of throws them into a measure of unpredicatle ground where now u are forced to defend not only why their model of debate is bad for debate, but now also for them is more likely where my ballot could fall 

Education is a non starter - 


da/cp - sure 


K's - if you dont know how to go for this please dont 


Theory - if u use ur recylced theory blocks at full speed, then guess who is going to be mad at the end of the debate? 

Not the adjudicator 


Condo - up in the air ( play ball) 


tbh i will vote on anything, im a hack for persuasive manevuers, tricks, anything that makes the debate, a debate and not a robotic measure contest for how well we can put our heads in a computer. 


anyway that was the glenbrooks update 


carry on 


Hi, name is Anthony Joseph 
debated at Little Rock Central High School ,ESU, KCKCC, and UMKC
did the CEDA/NDT thing twice now; Quarters(CEDA) Octas NDT
i only do a little judging so I'm not really concerned with exploring the different type of arguments so that you feel better about having me in the back because I think that regardless of who you are, trust me I don't really vote aff/neg based on my preferences (if I did, the affirmative would be straight outta luck) but I judge based on how well you debated, who did the better debating, which is obviously determined via the process and outcome of the debate.
I hate liars. 
I'm a fair with points unless you just make terrible mistakes that would make me bang my head against a wall in a manic rage
Do YOU. Please don't even read this. Just debate and if you're better, you'll win unless you dropped the ball, then don't worry about it.
i guess for the sake of people caring about preffing me if you find the following thought processes persuasive, I"d personally avoid that inner voice that says "let's give him a chance"
"let's just extend the tags, he'll never know" 
"oh I'll just NOT explain anything, he"s voted for teams like us before" 
"I think if we confuse the judge, we might just win this one" unless u are offesive in making confusion a reason to vote aff?
"I'll just exchange quality debate for nonsense" which is different from nonsensical " - me 
***scaling points 
28.5- 28.7 must have been average, mediocre, I almost fell asleep, or you made a lot of mistakes 
28.8 - 28.9 like cool, cool you making moves out here and I respect that, whether you going for framework and you actually have persuasive impact framing 👏 , or you majestically demolish the debate with style, you've made the debate that much more enjoyable, but could still do a lot of small technical things to become that much closer to being great 
29.- uhhm you must be shitting excellence (my bad for the people who assume this is a reflection of your professional identity and might think I'm suddenly a horrible judge for exposing these teens to cursing) 
Most importantly, have fun, learn, kick some butt, and come to win. * please come to win, or else like ugh 
  