
  School Affiliation : ACORN Community HS (Brooklyn,NY), NYUDL (New York Urban Debate League)
Current student at NYC [[#|College Of Technology]] (CUNY)
Two years debating for ACORN and I currently debate for the CUNY team.

I love a good debate round with hard hitting questions instead of the usual small minded questions which some debaters are prone to doing these days. I believe debate is a place where a person can express themselves and [[#|educate]] themselves and others on what is relevant to their lives. I have debated everything from Topicality to Kritik. I enjoy a nun messy debate round where I don't have to figure out where someone is on the road map.

Speaking : I believe that a person must speak clearly and articulate themselves well in order to get high speaking points from me. Also debaters must be very respectful to the other team, I will not tolerate debaters who show a lack of disrespect for others.I'm cool with any level of speed as long as I can hear it and understand it. I really hate when debaters say IGNORANT and UNEDUCATED statements, so please know what you are talking about when you are in front of me.

Topicality : I rarely vote for T I believe it is the worse off in the entirety of debate. It is completely a waste of time and a sheet of paper. If the opposite team gives a counter definition or just a "we meet' I will quickly disregard the T. Sadly as a judge I uphold some rules of debate, so if the AFF team completely drops the Topicality then I will have to vote on the T -_-.

The Flow : I like a neat debate round where everything goes right down the [[#|line]]__. Not having clear road maps can lead the debate round into peril. Debaters going left and right without proper articulation of where they are actually going on will drive me crazy!

Theory : I consider this really irrelevant. I'm not to fond of it because in my opinion it doesn't serve to do much in the debate round, even though I have ran it many times (lol). I have never voted on theory in a debate round and probably won't unless it is like a very close debate round and it comes down to that.

C/P : I love Counter Plans!! I enjoy hearing alternative measures to the AFF plan and see how it actually works. I approve of every kind of C/P within the debate round. However the C/P must have a net-benefit, just because you run it don't mean I will vote for it automatically. Gotta work for the vote!

Framework : I'm a big fan of Policy FW I believe it is the foundation of debate and must be upheld in almost every round. Policy helps to educate others on how the world actually works and is key tool. I'm not fond of Critical Framework, I believe that we must follow the resolution and uphold the traditions of debate.

Kritik : Hate It :). If I even hear that word in a debate round I will go crazy!!

Disad : I like it a bit. I will probably actually vote for it more than majority of the other off cases. Must make me really think though why should I vote for it and why are the D/A of the plan are catastrophic to the AFF plan.

In closing I like a good debate round with lots of clash. I like hearing educated questions and smart articulations. You have to work for my vote I'm not going to give it away freely you must prove to me why do you deserve my vote.

"Education is key"
  