
  I debated 4 years at Hutchinson High School and debated for a little bit in college at KCKCC 14-15- Now assistant coaching 2017-2018

Background-I ran exclusively policy arguments during high school, in college then I switched the arguments about identity,
non traditional ("performance" if you want to call it that), I.E- Latina knowledge production, queerness,and womanism. I am familiar with lots of different arguments from all sides of the spectrum so feel free to run what you will in front of me I will listen to anything- Do you.. Like I said I've done debate on the policy and critical sides of the spectrum.

Yes! I want to be on the email chain: hhsjuarez14@gmail.com

T- As far as topicality, you need impacts. You're saying this team should lose the debate?? That seems like a pretty steep punishment. Give a reason and not just a generic basic reason prove to me that there's a real impact in the round

DA- Affs can beat bad disads on defense if affs explain why that defense is more important than everything the neg is saying (same goes for the neg with bad aff advantages). In terms of impact calc, I think probability is generally the most important

I expect you to make comparative impact claims, Don't just do a small extensions of cards and think that's good enough b/c more than likely it's not good enough to a/t the argument. I expect you to explain what your evidence (assuming you choose to read evidence/ if not explain why your argument is important to the debate.) and most importantly I want you to tell me what matters in the debate and what I should vote on or frame the debate on how the debate should be judged on. 

Link work in general- if you have bad link stories- It will be hard for you to win the round, you will have to put in work on why your link matters and why it should be weighed in the debate not saying it's not possible to get that W but you'll have to put in more work to get that Win.

CP- word PICs tend to not be compelling- I'll listen to them but you'll have to do more work if you want to win an argument on it.
I think generic CP's without specific solvency evidence are bad and if you want to win on it you'll have to do more than just read your blocks you've been reading.. you have to do better.

K/FW - philosophical arguments- I'll listen and vote on it if you do the work of explaining it and why it matters in the debate.
Framework arguments that compare world-views (i.e. "extinction outweighs epistemology") are far more compelling than framework arguments about procedural fairness (i.e. "the K is cheating").

Things you should know/ if you care:
I will vote you down on speaks if you are blatantly offensive/ Rude for no reason I don't want to see/ hear it.
I like hearing historical examples are great ways to contextualize your arguments and show off your intelligence, it will impress me and help me get on board with your argument. Let me see what you know!

Arguments I don't like a lot is racism good, rape good, etc. Just being honest. It will also largely implicate your speaker points.

If you have any question just ask me. 
  