
  Background
 Junior Debater, Northview High 
2N (3 years)
Email: Faeez.juneja@gmail.com
Stuff
 Be nice. I don't come to judge and take time from my weekend to watch someone making nasty comments or hurting someone's feelings just because he/she thought it would be "funny." Super policy oriented. I prefer disads + case debates and CP + DA debates. They're super fun and love those 2nrs. This by no means says that you're restricted to go for them in the 2nr. I'm down to hear 2nrs in Ks or whatever you think is bes to win. Tech over truth, but there can be a few exceptions. Reading poor, ridiculous arguments like racism good, patriarchy good, suicide good, etc. will reflect in low speaks. Cross Ex. I will flow this and will reward good performances in higher speaks. I think cross ex can be extremely strategic in debate and a really good time to display ethos. Don’t waste it.Evidence. A claim should have sufficient warranting for me to consider it a piece of viable evidence. If I call up a card after the round and see that the card doesn’t really support the claim you’re making, I’m not willing to give you credit.Email chains. Put me on them.Clarity. I'll yell clear 3 times max in a speech. I can't be flowing anything if I don't understand what you're saying. Condo: 1-2: great. 3: uphill battle for the neg. 3+: nope. Prep. I don't consider it prep for flashing unless it's more than 30 seconds. Then, the timer starts.Don't expect me to be taking track of your speech or prep. Aff
 I think that all affs should defend the USFG. I absolutely love topical policy affs and am fine with soft left affs that defend the state. I really, really don't like K affs. I’m easily persuaded by framework against non-traditional affs.DA:
 Love them especially specific turns case argumentsImpact Calc is super important. Slowing down and actually doing impact comparisons is what I’m looking for.CP:
 More neg leaning in terms of competition.Should have a solvency advocate. Conditional Multiplank CPs are a no-no.T:
 Should probably be able to provide a caselist when asked.Not really a fan of T QPQ.K:
 I’m familiar with Security, Neolib/Cap, Heidegger, and other popular Kritiks.I prefer there be specific links to the aff instead of just a general link. Have them somewhere in the neg block.Alt explanations are super important to me. If you’re aff I encourage you to find holes in that. 
  