
  Debated for Maine East 2005-2009
 
Kritiks
Not an expert on them, but I have voted for them. Explanations are VERY helpful, especially the links and alternative. I don't like generic explanations. PLEASE explain it in terms of how it affects the affirmative. Regarding framework debates, I'm not a huge fan of the theoretical aspects. If it comes to the theoretical aspects, I lean towards giving the affirmative their case and let them weigh it. However, reading disads on framework would be a different story. If 1ARs do not answer 1AR traps such as root cause arguments, I lean towards the negative. READ OVERVIEWS!

Disads
I'm very open to them. Whoever does a better explanation wins. Make smart arguments like case/disad outweighs and case/disad turns disad/case. If the affirmative can make efficient and smart analytical arguments/analysis I would vote on them. Overviews please. What I mean is that there should be impact analysis/comparison at the top of your constructive/rebuttal speech.

Topicality
I like the competing interpretations framework. The biggest reason why I tend not to vote on topicality is because there's a lack of analysis on potential/actual abuse. PLEASE don't re-read the shells and give reasons why the affirmative is uniquely bad for debate and not just generic arguments as to why your limits are good. Overviews are great.

Theory
Voted on them multiple times because there's a lack of clash on the affirmative's side. 

Non-traditional debate.
Ehh... Not my style of debate. Affirmative should affirm the resolution and negative should negate it.

Argumentation
If an off-case is dropped, don't read new cards. Just give an overview (impact analysis/comparison).
Dropped arguments are true arguments.

Other Stuff
If you're not clear, I will say clear. If nothing changes, I won't flow.
Speaker points are given not just based on argumentation, but also how you behave. In other words, don't be jerks.
Keep track of time if I do not have a timer.
If no one is keeping track of time, the speech ends.
Flashing evidence should not take more than 5 minutes, unless the laptop really did die. If not, I will start prep.
  