
  Hey everyone, my name's Parth. I was a national circuit LDer from Trinity Valley School in Fort Worth, Texas. As a debater, I qualified for TFA State 3x, NFL Nationals, and the TOC. I also attended the UNT Mean Green Workshops and the National Symposium for Debate (NSD), and taught at NSD this summer as a first year out.
Given that history I'm pretty well versed regarding most types of LD debate and am not too picky as a judge.

I'll keep this paradigm brief as my opinions on very nuanced LD positions tend to change from topic to topic, so it is in your best interest to just ask me before the round about specific issues. As a judge I am fine voting on nearly any argument so long as the argument isn't morally reprehensible (i.e. genocide good). I am fine voting on skep and triggers, as I understand the strategic value of them in debate. I was a big util debater so I am well versed with that, however, I also read K's, theory, skep, and spikes throughout my time as a debater, so feel free to read any well warranted arguments in front of me. On theory, I am very open minded and will vote according to how theory is framed in the round. Please be clear and explicit on your extensions and how the extended arguments function in the round. I will not do any extensions for you as I feel such action would be interventionist. At the end of the round just lay out exactly how I should be voting through weighing and argument interaction analysis. If you tell me how to vote, it will probably make the round easier for me to evaluate, and will save everyone a lot of time. If not, I might take a while deciding after the round, which isn't fun for anyone.

In terms of speaks I am pretty generous (won't give below a 25 unless you do something ridiculous, hope to average a 28), but will dock you if you are blatantly unclear. I am fine with tricks, those will not dock your speaks, and in fact may help them if executed in a strategic manner. I'm fine flowing you at your top speed so long as you retain some clarity.

Feel free to ask any questions you may have. Like I've said, it's best to clarify any issues you may have prior to the round beginning.
  