
  Updated: 10/19/16
Name: Matthew Kantenberger
Conflicts: Concordia Lutheran

Background: I debated 4 years of LD in high school including locals and bids, qualifying to TFA my junior and senior years.

General
I will 1) evaluate the framework to decide how to vote and then 2) use that provided criteria to declare a winner. Winning the framework does not automatically win you the round, but so to losing the framework doesn't guarantee a loss. I think a lot of debaters leave their judges with insufficient guidance as to how the round should be adjudicated and are upset when their judges have to just give it their best guess. Don't make me guess who should win the round; tell me how you want it evaluated to make sure you can agree with the result.

I will probably drop you if you make comments that are racist, sexist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist, etc. I believe that debate is a safespace that grants voices and liberatory potential to the oppressed, and I think judge intervention is warranted for the sake of this activity's integrity should debaters engage in aggression against their opponent or members of the community in general.

Utility/Misc
Spreading -- fine. I will say clear or speed or whatever. If you don't adapt it will hurt your speaks. Please slow down at least a little bit for tags and texts (plan text, Role of the Ballot texts, etc.). I don't think spreading and good speaking skills are mutually exclusive. As such if you spread poorly it will hurt your speaks and likely my ability to flow which will only hurt you. Don't spread out novices. If someone is clearly less experienced than you there should be other avenues you can use to win the round besides speed.

Flashing -- I think flashing is good practice so I won't count it against you for prep time. Let's be real though, it takes like 5 seconds to flash so if you're just draining extra time to put together your speech doc or whatever it will be obvious and I will probably start your timer again.
If you are unable or unwilling to flash, that is to be respected; however the onus is on you to have physical copies of anything you read readily available for your opponent upon request.
Flex Prep is fine but only for asking clarification questions. You can use this time to point out how they don't have offense, but don't use this time to generate your own offense. (That's what CX is for.)

Extensions -- Let me know which cards to extend, but also extend your warrants. <-- This is important

Styles, etc.
I will evaluate whatever you give me, but here are some notes:

Kritikal -- Don't read something you don't understand and don't assume I have prior engagement in your lit. That being said, K db8 is gr8 db8 and I would love to adjudicate a well-rounded K that you are well-versed in and even better passionate about.

Theory/T -- I was never a great theory debater so please slow down at least some and crystalize everything so that I know how you want me to use the theory you have read to evaluate the round.

Phil -- Intense framework debate shouldn't be an issue, but same with K stuff, don't assume I know the lit.

Perms -- I think debaters should articulate how they want the perm to be evaluated (whether it is an advocacy in itself or just a test of competition). I'm down for all types of perms, though.
  