
  Hi, I’m Vibhav Kanyadan. I’m a junior at Wheeler High School, and I have debated for 2 years. I love good debates in general.
I like to be on email chains and SpeechDrop.
My email is vibhav.kanyadan@wheelermagnet.com.

My Stuff on Types of Arguments:

Topicality: I love a good T debate. I will definitely vote on T. You must have voter for education and fairness in your T.
Aff: YOU WILL LOSE ON T FOR THE FOLLOWING THINGS:
1) No counter-interpretation: This means you agree with their interpretation of the topic.
2) No “we meet our counter-interpretation”
3) No response to limits or ground
Neg: I won’t consider your T violation when im making the decision if:
 1) You don’t have an interp & violation
 2) You don’t have why the violation is important
 3) you don’t state why the aff being off topic is unfair to you guys (limits & ground args)

Kritiks: Personally, I don’t like the Kritik. If you run a critique you have to do it well for me to vote on it. I won’t vote you down on a Kritik, but I may or may not vote on the K if it’s just…silly. In other words, don’t try to pull stuff like “Batman K’s” on me (I once faced a batman K) and don’t try to make confusing Kritiks.
Disads: My favorite neg argument. I will for sure vote on dropped disads, disad impact outweighs, disad turns case, etc. However, if you don’t have uniqueness, link, internal link chain, and an impact, I ain’t even FLOWING your disad.
Counterplan: I love the counterplan. But please please please please please make it make sense. I will vote on a counterplan if it has a net benefit and if a side is winning on it. But I would have to weigh the rest of the debate first. 
Theory: If the aff is winning on something like Conditionality or Dispo or PIK Bad, whatever it is, the ballot is aff (that is, if they don’t make up some BS argument and if they actually are well-versed in why the theory arg the neg is running is unfair to them.)
Kritikal Affs: I hate K affs. I think they are ridiculous. Fair warning: you would find it very hard for me to vote for you if you run a Kritikal aff. However, like I say, I like a good debate. There’s gotta be clash. But the K aff has to make sense and have good evidence.
Case Debate: If I don’t see clash, I will not exactly weigh the case arguments as much. I love good case debates. Convince me why other’s arguments are worse than yours. Convince me why you solve (or why they don’t solve). Turn their case using offcase args or case turns. If the neg drops case I am more likely to VOTE AFF. If the aff drops a case turn, and the neg extends and goes all out on it, the ballot goes to the neg. I will weigh a good case debate.
Impact Debate: PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE have an impact to your arguments (unless it’s like a case turn). Do impact calculus (remember: magnitude, timeframe, probability). Frame your impacts on why your impacts are worse and why I should prioritize your impacts. Scare me into endorsing your team by utopian impacts, such as “blah blah blah blah blah CAUSES EXTINCTION.”

My Ethics Rules:

Be Clear: If I cannot understand what you say, I will say “Clear.” If I have to say clear twice or more (to you, not to your entire team), you are not getting more than a 26 for speaks.
No CLIPPING: You must say “mark card at *word*” if you aren’t able to finish a card. Don’t say “cut card.” If you don’t do that and you skip over a highlighted part, you ARE CLIPPING. I WILL DROP YOU FOR CLIPPING AND YOU WILL GET A DEFAULT 22 speaker points. Be warned. I am recording you…. It’s a rule of debate, most judges will drop you for clipping.
Don’t be a Jerk: Be nice, don’t be aggressive. I may/may not dock speaker points if I notice jerk-y behavior. I will definitely dock points if you are being homophobic in your speech (racist, sexist, misogynist, etc.), and I thus am obligated not to vote for you. 
Have Fun: What matters most about debate is if you learn and have fun. It’s really fun. You don’t have to be pressured to win all your rounds. I get the nervousness, but its part of your experience.
Have a Good Attitude: The worst thing about a debate round is when someone comes in moping and groping. Be positive. You can do this.
DO NOT STEAL PREP: I will keep track of your prep, though ideally you should also be doing that yourselves. Keep in mind that I will do this for you, but many judges won’t do this for you. You WILL LOSE SPEAKER POINTS IF I CATCH YOU STEALING PREP.
Don’t Cheat in General: If I catch you cheating, I ain’t gonna be happy. Keep in mind that if you cheat I will drop your team and give you very low speaks. Be fair to your opponent.
Pay attention to me when I’m giving feedback: I hate it when I’m devoting my time to help you and you don’t pay attention. Take what I tell you to heart.

Have fun, enjoy, and I look forward to listening to you debate!
  