
  *Up to Date for Florida Blue Key 2016*

Hello everybody! My name is Phil and I judge for Sarasota High School. In the round, please refer to me as judge.
Short Version: No spreading, progressive argumentation, rudeness or offensive argumentation. Collapse and weigh at the end of the round. Summarize why you are winning and tell me how to vote and why. Most importantly, have fun!!
Long Version:
I am a Lay/Traditional judge. FBK 2016 will be one of my first judging experiences.Do NOT run anything progressive in front of me. This includes, but is not limited to, theory, kritiks, plans, counterplans, tricks, spikes, topicality, etc.SpreadingI don’t understand it.If you want me to flow, don’t do it.If either debater does it, I will not know how to resolve the round. I will likely just vote for whoever does not spread.That said, please speak at a normal rate. Speak as if you are having a conversation with me. What to RunAs stated, nothing progressive.Please follow a Value/Value Criterion Structure.Arguments that will work best for me will be standard Util/ Impact weighing.If you do not weigh impacts for me, I will have to do so myself. In that case,Deaths are badLife is goodHigh risk scenarios are a thing as long as they have a clean link story. This does not mean that I will tolerate a disad presented at talking pace.War is really, really bad.
You should have contentions that link back to your criterions.I probably will not catch on to complex ethical and moral concepts. If you want me to evaluate it well, please keep it simple.Speaker PointsI will award speaker points based on how well you speak and present.I probably will not go lower than a 27.30 if you are really above average.MiscellaneousBe nice. This means to both me and your opponent. The debate space should be as inclusive and as comfortable as possible.This will be my first tournament on whatever the Nov/Dec topic is, so please explain any complex things about the topic during the speeches as if I have zero background information, because I probably will.
I will not call for evidence.
  