
  Background: I debated for Bronx Science for three years, (class of 2012) and have been both a 2A/2N (Policy). I also went to Mount Holyoke College (class of 2016) and both debated and coached APDA parliamentary debate there. I also coach elementary, middle school, and high school debate for the New York City Urban Debate League. This year I am the programming coordinator for NYCUDL.

Email me if you want notes / my flow after the round: courtney.d.kaufman@gmai..com

Philosophy

Here's the quick version if you're reading this as I walk into the room.

Debate is a privilege, not a right. Not everyone has the opportunity to compete in this activity. I will not condone arguments that are racist, sexist, homophobic or idiotic. Respect the privilege of competition, respect your competitors, the hosts of the tournament, your partners and most importantly respect yourself.

DO NOT BE RUDE.

Prep ends when you're done flashing. Do not steal prep. This follows from not being rude.

Say where you're marking off a card.

Look at me when you do c-x / cross-fire. It makes me crazy when people don't try to make eye contact with me. This is where you'll be getting your speaker points so make it count.

Give your opponents a way to view your cards, whether it's jumping it to them or giving them a viewing computer.

T can be great, especially if its not a throwaway.

If you don't understand your K, I won't either. If I don't understand it, I won't vote on it.

I'll vote on theory if you show substantial abuse.

Politics boils down to most recent cards and uniqueness.

Debate means never having to say you're sorry. Unless there's an obvious reason to apologize in a round, don't do it.

Have fun. If you're not having fun, I'm not having fun either.

More specific questions? Ask me.

Have fun!

Event Specific Section

Public Forum
Don't be rude. 

I taught this topic at camp this summer so I’d say I’m fairly familiar with it. 

Please don’t make up evidence. That makes me upset. You should directly quote evidence from the original text.

Please give me clear voters and standards for weighing. I don’t want to have to intervene.

Whatever you think is spreading is not actually that fast. Seriously. However, if you’re unclear I’ll let you know.

Be sure to both ask and take questions during cross-fire, this is your time to get speaker points.

Have fun!

Lincoln-Douglas
I'm an ex-Policy debater from an era before Ks were super popular. Take that as you will. Don't assume that if I don't know as much about your critique as you do that I don't understand spreading or am ignorant about debate. Also there's a fairly good chance that I'll mix up debate terms, if I call your cross-ex crossfire don't take it personally.

If you don't understand your critique, I won't either. If you don't show substantial abuse or explain it well enough for me to understand I won't vote on it. If you don't show a clear ROB I won't do your weighing for you.

I enjoy theory when it's done well and not as a throwaway.

RVIs are weird. Yeah, I get that they're super popular in LD but I've never really understood why. That doesn't mean I won't vote on them, just make it clear why I should.

Have fun!

Policy
I believe Policy as it is shown in Nostrum episode 11.

Topicality: I believe that T is a legitimate argument if you can show substantial in-round abuse. I also believe that it is most important at early in the year tournaments because it shapes rounds for the rest of the season. If you're reading a tired old T block in February on an Aff that is topical just for the sake of time skew, I probably won't vote on it unless it goes conceded.

I will vote on your critique if you're making a clear and compelling argument. More importantly, if you don't understand your critique, I probably won't either.

I love and hate the politics DA, but at the end of the day it boils down to who has the most recent cards, who's unique and who can best answer politics as theory.

I love theory. I believe that some arguments are simply unfair, and if you can prove that to me through theory, I salute you. However, I have a medium threshold for theory. Don't take advantage of this, and think you can read any theory block you want and expect to win. Impact theory, show abuse, don't use it as a throwaway, it could end up saving you later in the round.

I hate rudeness. Do not disrespect your partner, your opponent or me. I will lower your speaker points. I will be annoyed. Don't steal prep, that also makes me annoyed. Prep ends when the flash drive is out of your computer, (be sure to say you're done) and starts when you sit down after your speech. I've been lenient about this, but it's getting to the point where people are taking exorbitant amounts of time for flashing.

Tip: If a tournament has internet, make a Dropbox for just that round, add your opponents, put speeches in Dropbox it saves time, trust me.

Make c-x worth my time. Look at me! I'm watching a debate, not TV. It irks me when debaters make no eye contact. Also, if you're short and you're speaking from behind a laptop, turn it so I can see your face, it makes you louder as well.

I really hate to have to say clear a lot. Just be clear. Please. Don't push yourself to be faster.

When you mark off a card say mark off AND THE WORD otherwise it can be confusing to your opponents, especially if you don't finish all the cards before your speech ends.

Jump all the cards before the speech. If you read additional cards, jump them after. Your opponent has 30 seconds to look them over before c-x begins.

Time your own prep and speeches, invest in a cheap timer, a free timer app (I can suggest a few for Mac) or Debate Mobile or some equivalent for your iPhone/iPad.

If you ask about condo, read condo, don't just ask about it for no reason. It could save you at the end of a round.

I don't care about open c-x, I do care if you take your partner's entire time.

Break up cards with analytics. It makes my life so much easier.

Debate means never having to say you're sorry. Unless there's an obvious reason to apologize in a round, don't do it.

NO TKOs. NO. NO. NO. (I get asked about this a lot since it's not something people do anymore.)

Have fun. If you're not having fun, I'm not having fun either.

More specific questions? Ask me.

2016-2017 
BIG BRONX 2K16
Really excited to be back at my alma mater. I’ll be judging PF this weekend.

In the words of my friend and mentor Aubrey Semple, “Remember, competitive debate is a privilege, not a right. Not all students have the opportunity to compete in this activity on their spare weekends for various reasons (academic and socio-economic disadvantages to name a few.) Remember that debate gives you an opportunity to express yourselves on a given subject and should be taken advantage of. Although I don't want to limit individuals of their individuality when presenting arguments however I will not condone arguments that may be sexist, racist, or just plain idiotic. Remember to respect the privilege of competition, respect the competitors and hosts of the tournament and most importantly respect yourselves.”

2015-2016 
HARVARD 2K16

I haven't judged at a high school debate tournament in a long time, so bear with me if I don't have the latest knowledge on your topic. I'll be judging LD this weekend and that's the only high school format I haven't formally coached.

Flex prep is fine.

LAST UPDATED: 10/13/16
  