
  What is your judging philosophy?

To me, the purpose of debate is to hone and develop argumentative skills - this includes rhetoric, understanding fallacious reasoning, and legitimate conversation between both sides. What you learn in debate should be applicable to real-world dialectics, informal argumentation, and careers with high levels of public speaking, such as politics, law, and academia. 

I most agree with the tabula rasa style of judging. I attempt to come into a debate with no assumptions.

What do you think about speed?

Because of my philosophy, I do not like the tactic of "spreading" - I find it to emphasize high quantities of low-quality, surface level analyses, instead of small numbers of high-quality, deep analyses that are the norm (and more respected) in careers focusing on argumentation. I expect the only the strongest arguments to be used, and if you spread poor arguments that are shown to be easily flawed or rebutted, I will take that into account. Likewise, I expect counter-arguments to be of the same caliber. Debate is a form of communication, and thus must be presented at a speed that allows for full integration. I find that argumentation that focuses on speed comes off as shallow, insincere, and careless. 

What about counterplans/permutations?

Absolutely allowed. Counterplans can be a reason to vote for the negative if they are competitive and give some reason to reject the affirmative. However, permutations that show counterplans to not be competitive will render a counterplan useless when it comes to deciding whether to reject the affirmative.

How often do you vote on topicality?

I will vote negative on topicality whenever the negative successfully shows that the affirmative fails to meet the resolution. 

What do you think about kritiks?

I don't reject kritiks out of hand, but I am concerned that an over-reliance of kritiks detracts from other, stronger, argumentation. In order for me to vote on the basis of a kritik, it must provide some reason to accept or reject the policy advocated by the affirmative. 

What about traditional stock issues?

The bottom line is that I will weigh the advantages of the plan against the disadvantages. Each stock issue has an impact in determining how much advantage the affirmative can claim. 

Can new arguments be introduced in the 2NC?

Yes, the 2NC is constructive, so there are no problems introducing evidence in this round. The 1NR is a rebuttal, so there should be no new arguments presented in it. 

Can new evidence be introduced in rebuttals?

Yes - as long as it is dealing with an argument that originated in constructive speeches.
  