
  Background: As a debater in high school, Idid speech events for 3 years, and LD for 2 of those. I now attend Howard University where I have already participated in a few tournaments.

Presentation: (speed,speaks, don't be rude, and making sure your evidence matches what you point and your tagline is trying to prove, voters) I do believe you have to appear confident in a round, and I approve of your method for that as long as its not to be rude to the point of nastiness. Your speaks will be a reflection of how well I thought you performed within the round, there's not really a calculus for it. I'm pretty good at flowing, so speed is fine as long as its clear, but if I'm not writing you should probably slow down. Hopefully you can move on quickly, without losing the substance of what you're trying to say. 

Value/Standard: Traditional values of LD are important to me, so debates over framework and value/criterion weigh heavily in the end. I'd prefer it if during the round you don't get so caught up in petty arguments that you forget why you're debating in the first place and values and criterions become after thoughts.

Evidence/Argumentation: As long as your arguments are warranted whether by evidence or logic, I don't have a problem with it. However, you can't just read off a bunch of evidence. You should make sure that your evidence matches the point you and your tagline are trying to make because it often doesn't and I pay attention to that. Your arguments should be garnered to create clash, so I have something to vote off of.

Kritiks/Theory: Kritiks are fine as long as you explain them correctly. I'm open to a lot of arguments, if they're fresh and warranted that works in your favor. As open as I am, there shouldn't be any theory in a round if there's not a blatant abuse committed by your opponent. Anything else seems as if you're complaining about a situation that better debaters deal with, you should be prepared enough to win affirmative or negative. It takes away from time you could spend talking about the topic, and if you lose your theory, you'll probably end up losing the round. So, use at your own discretion.
  