
  I can only flow and think at half the speed of what many national debaters spread. I'm acclimated to NFL (now NSDA) and UIL style debating. If I can't understand you, I can't flow your side, at which time, I can't vote for you. Please adapt accordingly.

I believe that all debate rounds are won by the debaters who present the most logical and reasonable arguments either affirming or negating the resolution. Although speaking ability is important in communicating ideas during a round, it is never something I weigh heavily in making my decision as to who won (see the bolded statement above). I leave my personal opinions on resolutions outside of the round, so debaters' arguments, as long as well-supported and connected back to the resolution, are all accepted. I do, however, make an exception to information which is obviously erroneous. I will make sure to notate that on your ballot should it occur. Although I'm not against K's or Counterplans in LD, I am resolutely against it in PF. In a CX round, please consider me a lay judge. It is the event where I have the least experience; therefore, I listen for and vote on stock issues before anything else.

In extemp and oratory, structure, evidentiary support, and humor make for the best speeches. I am open-minded even though I have fairly resolute governmental and social leanings. Speeches that allow for a connection with the variety of individuals that make up an audience do better than those who alienate or polarize the listener. Conversational speeches that are still able to maintain academic formality will fare better than those which sound canned or stilted in an attempt to sound "smart."

My background includes public speaking and various forms of debate in the following realms (not exclusive):

1999 - 2001 Taft HS Speech & Debate Team
2001 - 2010 Volunteer judging as time permitted
2001-2002 Alamo Colleges Student Leadership Institute
2007 - Northwest Vista College Commencement Speaker
2009 - University of the Incarnate Word Commencement Speaker
2011 - 2013 Wagner HS Speech & Debate Coach
2013 - Current O'Connor HS Director of Forensics
  