
  Pam Kelso 
 High School Attended: McNeil HS, Austin, TX
University Attended: Texas A&M University
 
Current School Affiliation: Frisco HS, Frisco TX
Years Coaching: 3
 
LD Judging Philosophy:
I come to coaching/teaching from the corporate world, therefore my judging philosophy is vastly different from those that spent every weekend competing in debate in high school and college. 
 
Logical persuasion rules the day in my mind. I flow as much as I can and want to see each side addressing their opponents’ arguments head on. I don't vote on technicalities, but if you fail to address the crux of your opponent’s case, then I will assume that you don’t have a strong rebuttal, even if what you do argue is persuasive.
 
The basis of my decision rests on your value, criterion and contentions in the round. Convince me with good old persuasion as to why your value and criterion is more relevant to your case than your opponent’s.
 
I think there is value in elocution and don’t listen to spreading or speed reading. I hate when speed wins the round simply because you were able to produce more words, therefore more contentions, that your opponent has no possible way of addressing in the appropriate manner. You will never speak to your peers, superior, employees, customers, share holders, board of directors or clients like this in the future, so I don’t give merit to such silliness.
 
With that said, I expect you to signpost, group and extend very clearly. If you do not signpost I won’t follow your argumentation and a confused judge is likely to vote for the other side.  To signpost you need to refer to the outline of the argument you are addressing AND the responses made to the argument. Tell me where you are going and what your purpose in bringing up such material.
 
Don’t be rude. Assertiveness and confidence is a must, but you know when you are just being a bully. Don’t do it.
 
Lastly, tell me what my ballot should be word for word. Tell me exactly how I should vote and WHY??? Make it concise and persuasive. It is not my job to reconstruct the round or “make sense” of the arguments. 
 
Good luck!
  