
  Brian Kennett Paradigm 2017
Who I Am?
Great question! I’m so glad you didn’t ask! No really, I credit who I am to High School and college debate. While I didn’t learn everything from debate, I did learn most of what I think makes me tick. I’m thrilled you are here. That’s where I enter every round. I’m a dad, but I’m not a “dad” judge. Debate paid my way through college and took up most of my time for over 7 years. I love this so much that I volunteered to coach novices despite the fact my kids weren’t yet interested. Hopefully I’m changing their minds. Maybe you can help me? I try my best to be only judge the facts presented in the round while acknowledging there's really not a true tabula rasa judge in existence. #unicorn

What Do I Care About?
I value good solid argumentation and logic. Period. I will listen and flow almost any argument if you can properly articulate it and support it with evidence. If your opponent can’t convince me it’s not valid and offer evidence to support that position, you will almost certainly win. I am not part of the debate. I will not consider evidence or lack of credibility if not presented. I don’t view that as my role in the room. 

What Do I NOT Care About?
I’m really not a fan of framework or topicality blocks. Like I said above…I’ll vote on them if not argued, but I don’t for a minute believe this is settled law. Note I said “blocks.” If you, in contrast, can actually argue f/w or the T and convince me by not just reading a block…..game on. I just don’t at all value f/w or the T for their own sake. Not at all a fan of long theory debates, but like f/w and T.....if its done well, convincing, and/or not argued.....

How Do I Feel About Speed? 
I love my little black Mercedes and love to use Waze to avoid trouble……but……I know how to drive it. Here’s the deal…as long as you know what you’re reading, can accurately annunciate, signpost well, and don’t annoy me with trying to read way outside of your capability….you’ll be fine at any speed. I do appreciate email threads. I do occasionally ask for cards if I’m not familiar with something. All I ask….be a communicator. This is, at its core, an argumentation and communication activity. If I stop flowing and give you my best annoyed look….I’d slow down and start communicating. This is especially true in the rebuttals. 

What About The K?
Simple answer. Yes please….as long as its well written, well argued, well linked, and understood. If you can’t argue the link, or you REALLY don’t understand it….don’t do it. You will lose. Well…you will lose if your opponent realizes you don’t understand it and can call you on it. Note….if your opponent runs the K and you don’t think they understand their own argument… #petpeeve

What Are Your Biggest Pet Peeves?
I'm so glad you asked! I can come across as a little arrogant. All good debaters are. I’m not, however, a tool. It’s a fine line. I get it. But if you are abusive, rude, or generally a jerk. I won’t like you. It will be somewhat hard to overcome. You will be at a distinct disadvantage. Don’t do it. Be nice to each other. Have fun. And....for the love of ALL things good...do NOT make an argument you don't understand and can't explain in your own words. Yes, that means if you're reading something someone else wrote...I expect you understand it. 


Dropped arguments brought up in the 2AR....just don't do it.


Mean People. Rude People. 
  