
  Experience: I did duhbait for 4 years and have been judging for 1 year.
I judge for Alec Kerrigan, so harass him about any decisions you disagree with.

BTW I prefer not to disclose just because I don't like listening to people be butthurt. sorry.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDW0ZnZxjn4

short version for people too lazy to read
speed is fine but not excessively fast. Theory is reasonability for the most part. Ill buy every argument that is articulated well. Troll opponent/entertain me for high speaks.


UPDATE ON SPEED: PLEASE KEEP YOUR PITCH AT A REGULAR TONE. DON'T DO THAT THING WHERE YOUR VOICE GOES UP TO THE PITCH OF A JAPANESE SCHOOLGIRL. YOU KNOW WHO YOU ARE.


Long

Speed: 1 being 5 year reading his first book and 10 being TOC Policy finals, 5-7, so 1.5-2.0x conversational speed. I'll yell clear if I can't understand.

Framework Stuff:

V/VC: Fine

Standards: I prefer these.

Burdens: Best

Plans: Fine if you justify them.

Flex Prep: As long as both parties agree on it go ahead. At CFLs its against the rules, so I won't allow it there.

Weird Cases/Performance: I'm okay with them as long as your properly justify them, but don't expect me to be SUPER lenient.

Theory and T: I'm a bit more skeptical than most, and will only vote on it if there is actually abuse and you actually spend time on it. In otherwords: if you're only running it to be a dick/I know its just your A-strat, you won't win.

Ks: These need to be grounded in reality (don't just toss out long and hard to understand buzzwords), but this usually isn't a problem with Ks in LD. They're okay as long as they aren't retarded, and you KNOW when they're retarded. Tell me why to vote on them.

DAs: As long as they are reasonable. What I mean is too often debaters have link storys 10 cards long with 1 word internal warrants. This is annoying and will screw with my ability to weigh.
For Targeted Killing: Uniqueness is weird on this topic, so please avoid UQ debates the best you can.

CPs: Fun

PICs: These are sometimes more abusive than they need to be. Please actually justify them.

Notes:

I'll almost never intervene except if you run Rand in which I will intervene, and by that I mean get out of my seat and curbstomp you.

Give new arguments in the 2AR and I will stand up and scream "stop right there criminal scum"
  