
  Intro/Background:
 I am a parent Judge with year+ experience with Policy debate in the Northern VA area. I have been judging in the WACFL and other tournaments. I was an impromptu debater during middle and high school years. I enjoy judging kids…..love their passion very impressed with depth of knowledge!
  
 General:
 I prefer (and tell debater when they asked) clear road map, clear labeling, varied pace and clear conclusion after each phase. I feel debaters (mostly freshmen, sophomore…) focus too much on quantify of their argument instead of quality. They often forget that the judges may be biased in favor of well-mannered debaters against those who are not so nice at times. I firmly believe, debaters must take responsibility to point out clearly why they must win. summarize and emphasize every opportunity they get. They should not assume that the judges are following every details and keeping track of everything. Thirteen minutes is a long time! I avoid interrupting if no objections. I do not like to keep track of fractional minutes for prep time. I prefer closed corssX, however open crossX is OK if the debaters to not talk over each other. Yes, I want to do as little work as a judge as possible - and debaters should know that they have to earn a 'win'.
  
 Topicality:  
 If you are pointing out ‘abuse’ you must be specific. ‘Standard’ argument….“We increase education….” Is not sufficient to win. Tell us which arguments you can’t run, what education you are losing….Yes, I want actual evidence of abuse. You must explain why topicality should be a voting issue. Not just list of words.  Argument like, “ It is unfair….” - I don’t know what that means. Give me good, logical reasons why I should vote on Topicality. I would prefer Neg team to accept the broad definition of the topic and argue against it instead of relying on ‘Topicality’ argument. In most cases I find this to be a long shot. I urge debaters to avoid this tactics. If you argue ‘topicality’, do not solely rely on this!  

  