
  Matt Kiisel
Assistant Coach for Rowland Hall St. Marks
Rounds on the Topic: 15
Years in Activity: 8

Overview: I’ve been involved with debate for a while. I debated in high school, I debated briefly in college, and now I coach at Rowland Hall St. Marks in Salt Lake. While I feel I understand all the technical aspects of debate, I’ve grown to appreciate the “finer” parts of debate more than some of my colleagues. Don’t get me wrong, I flow, read evidence, and understand offense/defense HOWEVER, I find myself being persuaded more and more by the ETHOS of a debate team. Do something that demonstrates that you get what is happening in the debate; don’t just read blocks, be clear, bold, and strategic, use CX, work on perception, try some bits, be a good ambassador… All that being said, do what you do best.

Topicality: If it gets close, I’m probably voting aff. Good evidence and a real abuse story can win you the debate.

Disads: I prefer specificity instead of generics. This is the best place to show me you have a well-researched strategy.

Counterplans: Again, I prefer a CP that is tailored to the aff. This means I would rather hear a CP from the literature/solvency advocate than a Consult NATO CP.

Kritiks: A good kritik debater doesn’t need to read a ton of cards. Make arguments about the role of the ballot and the nature of your alternative. Start the “framework” discussion because if neither side says anything, the 2AR is probably right about their impacts outweighing.

Theory: Don’t go for theory unless you can prove abuse, ground loss, etc. You shouldn’t have to work really really hard to prove that you’ve been abused. If you’re negative, try to stay consistent.

Final Thoughts: Some problems work themselves out. Give back to debate. I have given the following RFD: “I just felt like voting aff.” Sometimes the underdog is right. You don’t have to use all your speech and prep time if you don’t need it. Weigh impacts. Most importantly, debate is a game and games are supposed to be fun; INCLUDE me in the fun.
  