
  Affiliation: Westwood High School
I will generally try to be as open minded as possible when it comes to judging so just do your thing and I'll be happy. There are almost zero (non-offensive) debates that CAN'T be won in front of me, so take the following list with a grain of salt.

Topicality: I don't really enjoy shallow topicality arguments and getting me to vote for it will require some work from the negative. I think aff flexibility is good but if the aff is really out there, by all means go for T if you can win a good standard for why the other team should lose. I default to competing interpretations.

Disads: DAs are fine and encouraged. Have good links and invest time in good impact calculus/smart turns the case arguments.

Counter Plans: I think counterplans are good but if you're reading a new/uncommon counterplan please slow down while reading the cp text. I default to "reject the argument, not the team" on counterplan theory.

Kritiks: I have a love/hate relationship with kritik debates. Reading generic link evidence and not framing the debate in the context of the affirmative happens a lot more than it should. I ask that you provide a good link and explain your arguments. Keep in mind that this means it is always expected that your analysis goes deeper than jargon-level description.

Theory: These aren't my favorite debates to judge, but this mostly because teams tend to speed through their blocks instead of picking the best (sometimes true) arguments that are reasons to reject particular arguments. Conditionality is the only argument, I think, that I would vote on as a reason to reject the team. I default to competing interpretations in these debates, so read one and defend it.

*Prep time ends when you're done editing the document. If the round starts moving slowly because of flashing documents, we'll start taking prep for the flashing process as well.
*I’ll call for cards after the round if my decision hinges on their content or if evidence that makes conflicting claims are presented. However, I will not call for cards in order to compensate for a lack of explanation in the rebuttals.

If you have any more specific questions feel free to ask me before the round.
  