
  Bio
 Table of ContentsBio
For Policy
Short Version (tl;dr)
Long Version
Generic
K Affs
Policy Affs
DEFEND YOUR HOUSE.
T/Framework
Disads
Counterplans
Kritiks
Theory
How to increase Speaker Points
Bribery 
Ending speeches early
TKO
Jokes
For LD

Leonardo Kim
Chaminade '15
CLU '19

Hi, I'm the other Leo Kim! 
I debated at Chaminade High School in California for four years.
Now I coach there and at La Reina High School.

For Policy
 Short Version (tl;dr)
 You do you. 
Don't do you if you don't know how to explain your argument and contextualize it. 
Please go for impact turns. They're a lost art and I will vote on a significant amount. 
Don't be afraid to go for impact turns against K affs.
Tech > Truth. (Unless impacted otherwise, which is still pretty techy)
Clarity > Speed, and god damn, slow down on theory.
Debate is a game, but that doesn't mean games can't have real world implications.
Prep ends when flash is out/email is sent (I've been more lenient with this one, but will enforce it when I deem necessary)
Don't be rude/offensive.
Be funny plz
CX is binding.
I think Terminal Defense is a thing
A conditional world means presumption flips aff.


Email me at leokiminardo@gmail.com if you have any questions.
Yes, include me on the email chain. 
My wiki, if you don't know which way I lean.

Long Version
 Generic
 My RFDs will most likely be pretty lengthy, because I was the debater who would postround for 15 minutes (even after a win), just asking how to improve. 
I've lost enough debates to know how to win them, so I hope that you as debaters would know better than I do.
You have infinite prep time to improve your clarity, speed, tech, and overall knowledge, so please utilize it. If it shows, I'll reward it.
Please write my ballot for me, I'm dumb. 
Debate is the most fun game I've ever played, please don't ruin it on purpose. 

K Affs
 Unfortunately for most framework teams, I'm super susceptible to ethos. But I also think framework is a valuable debate to have.
I've never read a critical aff, but I've definitely become more willing to listen to them. I definitely think that there is a place for them in debate, I'd just prefer it to be relevant to the topic. 

Policy Affs
 I've heard this countless times throughout debate, so I'll repeat it here:
DEFEND YOUR HOUSE.
 I'll be most comfortable judging these kinds of debates.
Read cards specific to your aff because I don't want to read cards that aren't specific to your aff.

T/Framework
 If T is genocide, strike me. 
I evaluate it like a disad so you should impact out arguments beyond words like "fairness" or "education".
I like the topic, and default to reasonability, because most of the time, I don't think that a plan is so untopical that it hurt your ability to debate.
However, space elevator is always T.

In regards to Framework, I will definitely be thinking something by the end of the 1AC. Whether it's a good thought or not is up to you to decide for me. 

Disads
 Go for it. 
Politics is a real thing.
Case specific disads sound cool as hell, too bad I've never seen one! /endsalt

Counterplans
 Pretty legit. I think process counterplans are fucked up, but unless there's a theoretical reason to reject it, I'll evaluate it.
You should probably read a solvency advocate.
Answer the perm.
Have a net benefit and make sure it doesn't link.
The period PIC is a bad argument, but, tech over truth.

Kritiks
 My partner and I were known for being the Cap K team (that was not St. Vincent). If that tells you anything, the furthest into K Lit I've gotten into was Critical Race Studies. After the 1NC CX, I'll probably be trying to piece together whatever it is, but I expect a crystallization of what the argument is in the block.
The link should be the easiest part to win, but you should still contest it, especially since the aff is not the USfg.
TELL ME WHAT YOUR ALTERNATIVE IS. 
If fiat is illusory, an unexplained alt is probably worse.
I still don't get why "Perm: Do the alt in all other instances" doesn't solve

Theory
 Slow down plz
As Jacob Hurwitz once said, "The only thing worse than a loss of Hegemony is conditionality".
As a 2a, I'm very aff leaning on condo. If your 2AC doesn't have conditionality in it (when it's necessary), that's typically the first question in my RFD. 
2 worlds should typically be good enough for the negative. 
I evaluate this in offense/defense, so tech and impacts are definitely necessary here.
I'm down to vote on MOST things, even "no neg fiat," but don't make my job ridiculously impossible.
I will not vote for prefs theory.
Theory crowds out substance is not an argument. This is not LD. Deal with it.

How to increase Speaker Points
 For the most part, this describes most of my feelings about distributing speaker points.
However, in most other instances, I would default to this list that my former Coach, Jordan Trafton's indicates:
Bribery 
 This exists in the real world. I think it's educational to simulate it.

I like skittles and bottled water :-)

Ending speeches early
 THIS IS SO UNDERRATED, PLEASE DO IT
 If you don't have anything to say then don't stretch it out. You don't have 8 minutes to speak in most interviews, congressional speeches (I'd assume), and other important things. Use the structure of your speeches as a rhetorical device.


TKO
 Technical Knockout. If you are 100% you have won the debate, call a TKO, and tell me the argument that wins the round. I will stop the debate, evaluate it, and if you are correct, you and your partner will receive two 30s. If you are wrong, you will receive 0s. Do you dare take the challenge?
Jokes
 Make them!
 I love puns, so the Oceans topic was good to me. If you're funny, I'll reward you. If you're not, RIP.

Be nice. Be friendly. Introduce yourself to the other team. Have fun :)

Extra points for knocking off anyone on this hitlist:
Jeremiah Cha
Chris Mills
Lev Sugarman
Parker Coon
James Allan

For LD
 
Everything up top should apply here.

Plz flow moar. I literally have to waste 15 minutes every debate because you flow off the speech doc and have to delete everything you didn't read. That's a waste of both our time.

ADDENDUM 8/20/2016 I'm absolutely done with debaters wasting time with this nonsense, if you have to ask your opponent to delete everything they didn't read, I will destroy your speaker points because you didn't flow. If you're a debater who does this as common practice, you might want to strike me.

I will evaluate most arguments. Exceptions are racist/sexist/homophobic args.
 However, I have a VERY high threshold on theory. I think it's killing an already unfair form of debate, and is a cop out for most debaters. I am of the belief that theory crowds out substance in LD. When it comes to this topic, judge intervention is good, especially when most theory is stupid, a time suck, and is anti-educational. I will be uncomfortable if you just go for theory, so please try to make LD educational for me.
My brightline for acceptable theory will be along the lines of Conditionality and PICs bad. For actual reasonable theory, I'm heavily aff leaning because of inherent time biases.
EG: You read "no theory" theory, the other debater says "reasonability" once, and I evaluate substance for the rest of the debate. 
If I judge more LD Debates, then I'll put down a checklist of things that I believe are non-arguments.
Disclosure TheoryPlan Texts BadT is an RVINo Ethics theoryNo a priori ethical considerationsSpreading Bad (As a K, I will evaluate it, but it's an uphill battle when your A Strat is that k.)Normative Ethics Garbage Specification ??????
  