
  Jason Min Kim
Pleasant Grove High ‘14
The University of Texas at Austin‘18

I debated LD all 4 years in high school, and was elected captain the latter 3 years. 


LD Paradigm:

1) I am a flow judge, meaning that I accept progressive LD strategies, okay with spreading, and vote only off the arguments, extensions and voters that are provided to me by you.

2) Spreading is fine; however, DO NOT sacrifice clarity for speed. I make no apologies for missing arguments that were uttered incoherently. I will definitely dock speaker points for lack of clarity.
 *If you see me stop writing or typing during your speech, this is bad.

3) Make sure you have taglines for your contentions and sub-contentions. If not, I will have a hard time understanding what you’re talking about.

4) Make sure to clearly express the claim, warrant and impacts of your arguments for both defending your case and attacking your opponent’s. 
 *This is crucial for persuading me that you didn’t pull your arguments from your ass but that they actually have weight.

5) You MUST extend arguments. You should show me that you understand how your arguments supersede your opponents’ refutations.

6) Voters are expressed during your last speech, telling me why I should vote for you. If you do not have this, I will be very unlikely to vote for you.

7) If your opponent drops an argument, tell me why it’s important to the debate. 

Framework:
I ran a lot of philosophical positions and really like framework debate so I love to see well-warranted frameworks and good framework comparison. If you are able to completely crush your opponent’s framework for his/her entire case, then I have no reason not to vote for you.

V/C Clash
I love me some V/C clash in my debates. Since LD is a Value Criterion debate, wouldn’t you think that they would be the most important? Clearly define your V/C and explain how they link towards the resolution. Also make sure to attack your opponent’s V/C to ensure that yours are superior. Doing so will pave the way to attack the contentions that are built on the V/C as well.



Speaks: 

High Speaks:
Being strategicMaking smart, nuanced argumentsBeing clearBeing considerate towards inexperienced debaters and making the round educational for themGood framework debatesQuality evidence comparison and weighingLow Speaks:
Not extending argumentsBeing rude to your opponentBeing unclearBeing mean towards inexperienced debatersUsing “dirty tricks” including but are not limited to making your case unreadable (e.g. using size 8 font, formatting your analytics as one continuous paragraph of text), stealing prep time, etc.Most importantly, treat me like you would a baby- spoon-feed the information to me instead of forcing me to make the inferences. 
Ie: If an opponent drops an argument, point it out and explain why it’s important. 
_End
  