
  I love good LD rounds.
I am now in my third year of judging. I have been helping out the Maeser Prep debate team, specifically LD, in Lindon Utah. I have judged hundreds of LD rounds, and am a regular on break round panels for the Salt Lake circuit. My first national tournament being the 2010 Golden Dessert tournament, I have also judged varsity LD at the 2010 Alta, and 2011 Pinecrest, Victory Briefs, Golden Desert, and Stanford tournaments. I'm good with speed, but if you are unclear, I will say clear so the debaters know to slow it down to where they can be understood, THIS IS IMPORTANT, if I have to say clear three times in a single speech I will stop flowing that debater. I will not say clear when on a break round panel as that could be prejudicial.

I don't care which style of debate you want to run. I'm very familiar with Traditional, my own son ended up going progressive so I am familiar with both styles of argumentation. I like good impacts that tie into your VC and thus support and give weight to the importance of your value.

Call me lazy if you want, but I also like it when debaters can come to a consensus during their Cross X about what each needs to prove to win the round. You as debaters then know what you need to accomplish and I know what to listen for, of coarse since I don't flow the cross you will need to bring up what is agreed on in a speech.

I think theory has become overused on the national circuit. But if you have an opponent who is running something truly abusive you are welcome to run theory, but you had better do a great job of proving to me that it is abusive, otherwise I will be annoyed that I had to flow it only so your opponent can easily beat it back. To me the point of theory is to beat back abuse in rounds, there is no other good point to it. If there is abuse in the round I will vote on theory.

I don't vote for many K's, but if you have one you want to run with me here is some advise, be very clear in explaining to me how this relates to the topic and outweighs your opponents case relating back to the resolution. Don't run generic K's that can be run on any topic.

I also like voters listed in the debaters final speech. I will look to these first in deciding the round and see if my flow agrees with the reasons you give on why you should win the round.

Stephanie Anderson King
  