
  Name: William Klausmeyer
School: Kapaun Mt. Carmel (Wichita, KS)
Experience: 3 year high school debater, 2 of those were high flow years

I debated 3 years in high school and was a high flow kritikal debater. I’ve debated most types of debates from straight up policy to performative and everything in between. That being said don’t assume that I know your literature base. I’m a tabula rosa judge (meaning I’ll vote for anything if it’s a warranted claim) but I default to a policy maker paradigm.

Speed – I prefer clarity over speed especially in nuanced arguments. It’s been a while since I’ve debated a high-flow round so start off slow and give me time to adjust. If I can’t understand you I’ll yell clear.

T/Theory – Give me a quality theory debate and I’ll vote for you. That said, my threshold for quality is probably higher than most. Theory was my baby in high school so if you want me to vote for you do it right. That means impacting your arguments out and explaining your arguments well. You’ll have a tough time winning the round on a blip theory argument unless its extended correctly (tell me what your argument was and why I should vote on it).

Disads – I like a specific story and a good link chain. Impact cards should be updated as well as the link cards. Don’t be making economic collapse causes war arguments from 2005 cards. That’s an easy way to lose credibility. I’ve always liked good DA turns case arguments, so if you have them use them. It’s an easy way to get more ground out of 1 argument.

Case – Case debate is vital to a good round (unless you have an AMAZING argument as to why case doesn’t matter). Good, logical arguments give you a lot of credibility. Case turns are an easy way to generate offense. At the very least you should mitigate case as best as possible.

Kritiks – I ran kritiks in high school but I by no means know the entire literature base. Don’t assume I know what you’re talking about, explain your arguments well. If you don’t have an interwoven argument to take out case you need to attack it separately.

Performance – Go for it but make real arguments and be able to explain them. Know your framework and how to win it.

Go for clash and debate warrants not just tags and you’ll have a much easier time winning. This is by no means comprehensive so ask any questions you have before the round.
  