
  Years h.s. debte : 3 all policy
Years college debate: 3 npda, npte
Current school: Washburn university
3rd place National Parliamentary Debate Associatoin 2009, 10th speaker.
NPDA 2010,
Major: Criminal Justice, Sociology, Military Strategic studies

I will preface this by saying that you can feel free to ask me any specific questions, the following is just pretty basic but doesn't list my specific opinions about all positions.

I prefer a clean line by line debate for any type. I am a flow judge, speed is not an issue, unless its really just a mumbling mess in which case you can expect me to say clear. For sake of clear extensions and accuracy on my flow, if you will be referencing cards in later speeches by author, make sure the author is clear in your initial reading of the evidence so that it is on my flow appropriately.

I HATE intervening...with that said, don't make me. Make the round clear by the last rebuttals. Tell me where to vote, the less work I have to do, the happier you'll be with my final rfd. If you tell me where I should be voting and you're actually winning it, that will be the first thing I evaluate. You should prioritize your arguments for me, such as indicating that theory/framework come first, and the reasons why that is true...since it's debate, even this is up to the debaters for me to decide..

I love a good CP Disad debate, but I'm pretty much open for anything, do what you're comfortable with and make sure that I am able to become comfortable with it in the round. I'm not as well versed on all k literature, so if you're running one make sure YOU know what you're talking about and it is explained well for everyone in the room. I really get annoyed by teams running the k when they don't understand it at all, this will not be a winning strategy in front of me. With that said, don't assume I won't understand your K, I've likely heard it, heard of it, or heard something very similar, so feel free to run your arguments. In answering the K i'm open to theory and framework arguments as well, and if I'm told to, I will evaluate these before the K proper.
  