
  New Trier 2009-2013
Whitman College 2013-2017
Email: gordon.kochman@gmail.com
Pronounced Coach-Man

Tl;dr: I know it’s cliché, but debate the way you debate best. A judge shouldn’t be influencing the strategic decisions of the debaters.

I debated for four years at New Trier Township High School just north of Chicago, and then I debated at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington for the two years the team existed while I was enrolled. Ask about what happened if you want to know.

K and Performance: Since I mostly debated policy arguments, I am more familiar with them. However, that does not mean I wantto vote for those arguments in all cases. I’m awfully familiar with consultation CPs, but I have a huge desire not to vote on them. If this is what you do, you should run it. My time as a debater has elapsed, but yours hasn’t, so you should be the ones doing the debating, not me.

Theory: Having been both a 2A and a 2N I have an inclination to protect the 2NR, but that doesn’t mean I’m unwilling to vote aff on theory.

T (vs. policy): Competing interpretations is default. I would go for T frequently. It’s a no-risk option for the neg.

CPs: The best strategies have specific CPs and DAs. Please don’t subject me to a consult CP. Please.

DAs: Nothing new here. I read politics frequently, if that means anything.

Tech over truth: Debates that are decided by judges always involve some inevitable aspect of judge intervention. However much I dislike it, a dropped argument is a true argument. I attempt to keep this to a minimum. Also, I try to avoid reading evidence. You should be the ones doing that work for me.

Debate is a game, but…: Debate is a wonderful activity that I have thoroughly enjoyed. I consider my role as a judge to be someone who ensures, to the best of my abilities, the continuation of this activity in a way that other people can enjoy it the same way that I have. This means that even though debate is a competitive activity, we cannot allow our worst instincts guide our actions. Things can get heated, but in general, you should strive to be an exemplary member of this community in your conduct.
  