
  I think there is no “right way” to do debate, and will try to give a fair hearing to the teams and arguments that I see. I vote for all sorts of K's, disads, theory arguments, and counterplans, and could seriously care less what you run--after all, I dont really care enough about you to have any opinion about how you should debate. That being said, I have my own quirks, and will attempt to spell them out here

1. Not much of a fan of theory debates (as practiced by most). If you are good at theory, you should be using it to abuse the other team in fun and creative ways, not bludgeon the other team on PICS bad. Generally the negative gets whatever counterplan they want, and the aff gets the benefit of the doubt on questions of topicality.

2. Terms like “no value to life” and “ontology comes first” etc are meaningless to me. If you rely on stupid buzzwords to win your k debates, expect me to not be impressed…in fact, I secretly hate the K. (Aff K answers are frequently worse though)

3. Carded vs Non-Carded arguments—Cards say all sorts of things these days, doesn’t make it true. Also, most advantages and disadvantages can be taken out/hopelessly mitigated by a few well placed analytic no internal link arguments.

4. Performance, etc—I’d rather hear zizek, and by hearing zizek, I mean die in a grease fire.

5. I flow, and I don’t call for many cards. If you want someone to look at all your fancy evidence, there are plenty of people out there that can fulfill that dream. I do usually call for a few crucial ones, but teams that rely on simply handing the judge 30 cards after the debate typically don’t get a good reaction from me

6. Not sure where this convention of stopping the prep clock between every speech to look for evidence came from….it quickly becomes annoying, along with other things such as being aggressively wrong in cx, or jumping around on the flow.

7. Speaker points—26 if you’re not very good, 27 if you’re mediocre, 28 if you’re alright, 29 if you’re top ten material. Most clearing debaters get 28-28.5’s or so from me, and I rarely go above 29.

8. It upsets me that no one discusses the fact that the earth is hollow and filled with super-intelligent dinosaurs hellbent on ENSLAVEMENT. talk about a d-rule.






  