
  I graduated from Broad Run High School in 2007 and debated policy for 4 years there and I've been judging since then! Here are my preferences:

I default a policy maker paradigm.I don't care how much you speed, but don't speak fast unless you CAN speak fast. If you are unclear, I will tell you once or twice and after that, I will simply stop flowing (which you don't want!). I greatly value clarity over speed. At the end of the day, you are persuading me to vote for you. There is nothing persuasive about speed.I am a T(opicality)judge! If aff loses T, they lose the round. Basically, Aff must be debating a topical case otherwise they shouldn't be allowed to be in the debate at all. However, neg must present an accurate T and tell me why I should care. (This includes SPECs).Aside from T, I love DAs and other concrete arguments/stock issues (CPs, on-case,etc.).I don't mind Kritiks and Theory arguments but if you run one, make sure I fully understand it otherwise I can't vote on it. I wasn't a K debater so don't use crazy isms or ologies and reference authors, because I won't know what you're talking about.Extend your cards, I won't do the work for you.I keep prep time and time through out the round, but you should also have a timer. I am horrible at giving time signals :( My official time keeping means CX starts as soon as the contention ends. DO NOT STEAL PREP TIME.You should keep your hair tied back, bangs out of your face. This is not only a judge preference, but you as debaters should always keep your hair out of your face so it doesn't distract you.At the end of the round, tell me exactly what you want me to vote on! This will make my job significantly easier and easier for you to win the debate. I always look at impacts at the end of the round and which side proposes the better policy. Turning the round Into a story always a good idea .If you're funny and amusing, I always give you good speaks! Just don't be a jerk, because that will seriously hurt youIf you run a critical Aff- I have no bias against them but keep in mind my policy maker paradigm. Also remember I will not judge anything unless it comes out of your mouth (I.e songs, music videos, etc. will not be evaluated). At the end of the day, show me how you SOLVE. Oh, and that your topical.Theory/all else- I often get asked if I look at theory and other arguments. I have voted on any arguement you can think of (including, ugh, ASPEC). Debate what you know and are comfortable with and I will judge you accordingly. I don't agree with tailoring the debate to what the judge likes. It's not my job to dictate what you run.
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to let me know! I would love to answer any questions you may have, as well as giving you feedback after the round is over! Just find me, I usually always keep my flow paper / spreadsheet.

Good luck debaters!! :)
  