
  I debated LD for four years at Stuyvesant High School, graduating in 2015. 

This paradigm will be updated as I continue judging, so if you have any questions that are not addressed below (or clarification questions) please feel free to ask them before your round.

Framework
 I was a mainly a framework debater throughout high school, so that's what I know best. If you're going to have a framework debate make sure you do things like explicitly compare your framework with your opponent's, and explain to me why the round needs to be evaluated through your framework. Please don't make me do the comparison myself. If you choose to drop your framework and run with your opponent's, explain why you better achieve the standards of that framework. 

Theory
 Theory is fine. RVIs are fine. I would prefer if the theory is not frivolous. If you win theory but do not explain why theory is drop the debater, I'll just drop the argument. Running theory on theory is also fine, as long as you explain why your meta-theory comes first. 

If you are going to have theory vs. K debate please explain which needs to be evaluated first and why.

Ks
 I have some experience running Ks my senior year (many of my teammates started running Ks) although I have not read the majority of K literature. Therefore if you choose to run a K just make sure you clearly explain what you are critiquing (whether it is something your opponent did or the resolution), the role of the ballot (and why the winner of the round needs to be the one who better achieves the role of the ballot), and how you solve (how you are the one better achieving the role of the ballot).

If you are going to have theory vs. K debate please explain which needs to be evaluated first and why.

Plans/Counterplans
 This is where I have the least experience in debate but feel free to run them as long as you clearly explain everything and how your plan interacts with the neg or how your counterplan interacts and is competitive with the plan.

Speed
 I'm TERRIBLE at flowing, always was, but I understand how important spreading is (I did spread). The best advice I can give you is use your own judgement. Perhaps cut out what you don't need, or go extremely slow on what's most important. I will say slow and clear and I have no limit on how many times I will say them, but if you do not alter your speaking as I continuously say slow and clear, I might just stop saying them and therefore not catch a lot of what you have to say.

Other
 I never really liked telling a debater what they couldn't run. I believe debate should be an activity in which all arguments are welcome and heard, and people at least attempt to understand them, even if they can't, because frankly debate rounds are short. So run whatever pleases your little heart. But under no circumstances should you ever be offensive (sexist, racist, etc.). If you are offensive I will drop you. If you are debating someone who is clearly being offensive, please just point it out even if it's just to say, "That is extremely offensive."

Feel free to ask me questions after the round. I will always disclose if the tournament permits and give my RFD. 

If you are much more experienced than your opponent (ex: you are a senior and the other is a novice or JVer) it would be very nice if you could tone it down once you realize that he/she has no idea what you are talking about and is freaking out. 

Please please please make extensions (that means claim, warrant, and impact). It's the worse when an argument would really help you win the round, but you don't extend it throughout the round, so I can't use it in my RFD. Also a dropped arg is a conceited one, but that does not mean it no longer has to be extended.
  