
  Background
I debated for Johns Creek High School for 4 years (Policy and LD) and now I'm a freshman at Cal. I've been both a 2a and a 2n so i'm not super biased either way, but I am a little more sympathetic towards the 2a (sorry?). I've also ran traditional policy affs and kritikal affs so any argument you run is usually fine, with only a few exceptions. I'm pretty open-minded to any argument as long as you debate it well. I don't currently debate but I am aware of the topic. However, a little clarification or extra background information wouldn't hurt in round.

T
I'm fine with T debates but I'd like to see more bigger picture, meta-level debates - why this (my) ballot sets a precedent and how, why your interpretation is best for debate, also how this round affects future rounds and future impacts etc. Make sure to do a lot of comparative impact calculuses in the last 2 rebuttals. But please no spec debates if possible. Just avoid them at all costs, thanks.

DA's
Yay DA's! Very straightforward, clear cut disads are my favorite debates.
Make sure you do a lot of comparative impact calculuses (with whatever you're running), show me the bigger picture. Don't forget offense! Case turns are your friends.


CP's
I'm fine with counterplans. Run them as you see fit. Not a big fan of consult and try not to be too abusive (running a ten plank cp then kicking out of 8 etc.) Condo is probably good.


K's
I actually like most K's and think they're good for debate, I honestly believe they challenge and broaden students' knowledge not just of the topic but of knowledge in general. With that said, I also think that K teams can be abusive and I think that the alts are definitely and tragically the weakest part of the K. You need to have a clear reason why your alt is better, why it solves for the harms of the aff much better.
Like I said, I enjoy K's but if you tell me the alternative is to sit around a campfire and love everyone, I'm probably not going to vote for you. Other than that, make sure to have specific links (ie a link that you haven't used for three years in a row) and good impact work. Floating PIK's are kinda abusive. That is all. 

LD
I am policy biased, so I'm willing to hear K's or DA's in an LD round. Speed is fine as well, but other than that just debate normally, make good arguments, crystallization is key etc. 


Important please read even if you don't read anything else on this page!
 This should go without saying and it pains me that I do have to say this but PLEASE BE CLEAR. I don't care how fast you can speak but if it sounds to me like you're speaking in a foreign language I will dock your speaks as harshly as i see fit. I'll give you fair warning but after 2 or 3 times, I'll just start deducting.

Also be nice. Don't be jerks. TRY not to use blatantly gendered words (manned, unmanned, etc - something that always bothered me). Thanks!
  