
  Debated for Centennial
Coaches for La Salle

I go by the flow. Truth makes the flow more compelling.

Framework/No Plan

This is what people look at anyways to make prefs
I love framework. I went for it all the time. I think its very strategic cause its usually the only thing that links to some of these Affs, and some of these Affs can get pretty ridiculous (high theory).

Aff: To be fair I read an Aff with no plan my junior and senior year. I think there is high value in these Affs, just ask my coach DB. Where I see people going wrong when answering framework is just repeating the same old "fairness for whom" with no explanation. That is a good first line of offense but there are more arguments than that cmon. I think the smartest way to answer framework excluding your turns is 1. clown the internal links 2. generate external offense (which means answer all the fw tricks that try to capture your aff) 3. consider the uniqueness and the relevance of their scenarios too. If you do this successfully their impacts are low, and now your impact turns have much more weight. Also if you can out-tech the Neg with these args, you're gonna get my ballot.

Neg: There are two routes. 1. Liberal 2. Hard-core Right. Personally I think the hard core right is better. Go for limits/clash as an internal link to fairness and decision making. The reason liberal doesn't work out too well is the Aff is able to either include themselves in your interpretation, your internal link thresholds are a lot weaker, or the Aff can solve for your terminal impacts a lot easier. When Ive debated against framework I loved it when teams read these state good only framework shells just cause I knew the perm would solve. I also loved when teams read multiple off against me just cause there were either contradictions or many cross apps I could exploit. Go one off framework with limits, fairness, etc. make a bunch of turns case/ solves case arguments and you will most likely get my ballot.

I think these debates are also won and loss in the cross-exes.
Overall I think the logic behind framework is silly, but from my experience Aff teams have been mediocre in debating that.

Disadvantages/Impact Turns

Make turns case arguments and a diversity of them.
I love the Politics DA. CO2 Good is by far the most fun.

Counterplans

Please win solvency.
I lean Aff on most theory questions, but do people even go for theory anymore?
Lean Aff: International CPs. Process CPs, Word PICs, Pretty much anything else not the bottom two
Lean Neg: PICs, Advantage CPs

Kritik

Im most familiar with race. If you read some high theory stuff you prob shouldn't pref me cause Im easily convinced that extinction outweighs or your stuff is racist.

Policy Affs: Usually you go for extinction outweighs. K Affs: Go for the perm

Topicality

Despite being a 2A for every year other than my senior year, I think most Affs aren't topical.
I think that extra T argument against topical K affs is extremely silly.
I really have a burning passion against regulation Affs.

Other Stuff

2Ns and 1As please ask for protection, trace out what was missed, what was new, what explanation shifted: This was integral to my 1AR and 2NR framing when I was debating
You clip you lose. If you falsely accuse you lose. Clipping: Any misrepresentation of evidence read in round whether intentional or not, mismarking cards included. Video/Audio evidence must be presented that was consented to before the round
If you havent noticed, I have a substantial dislike for high theory
Easiest way to lose speaks and the debate is not being confident. If you don't think you won, why should I convince myself you won.
For Penn only: recite "red and blue" properly before the 1AC for 2.0 extra speaker points.
Flashing is prep, emailing is prep, if you fail to properly save a file and have to reflash, that's also prep.
More speaker points for those who:
- Do not use all of prep (but still win, if you haven't noticed I value debaters who can do better with less prep which is why I think 10 minutes at tournaments is insane)
- Do not use all of speech time (but still win)
- Go for daring policy strats (but still win)
  