
  My name is Alex Koren. I debated LD for 3 years in high school, mostly independently, and attended numerous circuit tournaments. I am currently a freshman at Vassar College and compete on their Parli team.

I liked treating debate as a game when I was a debater, and I won’t hold you to any higher standard. As such, I am fine with whatever you want to do - enjoy yourself. However, for your convenience, here is an FAQ that answers some more specific questions:

SPEED – Feel free to go as quickly or slowly as you want – I can probably keep up. If I can't, I will yell "clear" once. If you do choose to read at top speed, please exercise all the usual cautions (slowing down on taglines, card names, etc).

THE RESOLUTION – When I first started debating, truth testing and a prioris were all the rage. Then, everyone suddenly switched to competitive worlds. Now, there’s this new Offense/Defense model. I will default to evaluating the round in whatever way you chooses to frame it. If you want to debate about the way the resolution should be framed, feel free to do so.

ARGUMENT EVALUATION – I like when there is a mechanism that tells me which arguments I should look to first. This can be a standard, independent weighing, a pre-requisite argument, or any other type of comparison of your choosing - I'm not married to any one particular concept. Whatever it is, though, PLEASE DO SOMETHING. If the round concludes with two competing extensions and there is no weighing between them, I am going to be forced to decide which one I like better on my own, and this is going to make someone displeased. Please weigh.

THEORY – I think the idea that theory can only be run in there’s “severe abuse” is just an excuse for intervention. What constitutes severe abuse, and who am I to decide when that threshold is crossed? Feel free to run any theory you want for any reason. Note: this doesn't mean I LOVE theory – I just don’t have a different threshold for it.

UNIQUE POSITIONS (Ks, policy arguments, VICs, narratives, counter-intuitive stuff, etc) – I’ve never heard an argument I hated so much I wouldn’t vote for it, so feel free to run that insane position you have in the back of your expando – I’ll certainly listen. That being said, don't feel obligated to run these positions - normal ones are fine, too. Also, please don’t spew your pomo – read it at a reasonable pace.

If you have any questions, feel free to ask. I loved debating – I viewed it as a super-intense strategy game and a great way to have fun. Share this view, and I’m sure we’ll have a fantastic round!

Alex Koren
alkoren@vassar.edu
  