
  I’m a varsity debater at Seaholm High School, and I’ve been debating for two years.Basic paradigm: I guess I’m open to any argument as long as you know it, but some arguments I give more weight to than others. I’m not one of those judges who say that they hate K’s or Process CP’s, but I’m really not at all partial to nit-picky theory such as politics theory. With conditionality, I think it’s acceptable to have a conditional K and a conditional CP, but if there’s more than that I’m open for Condo. As far as the aff goes, I put a lot of weight on the rebuttals, especially the 1AR. If an argument is conceded in the 1AR, I like to give the 2NR good protection and a lot of weight for those arguments. Also, I love a good impact analysis in the final rebuttals, not just basic case outweighs but good articulation of why you access their impacts. I first look to write my ballot on some great impact analysis or K work than some theory argument, so I guess you could say I’m more of a judge who loves a good story more than some technicalities.Things that are harder to win with me: I love a good K, but if you’re unsure about it then don’t go for it with me. I put a lot of responsibility on the neg for having a specific link to the aff, not just stick with generic link evidence. Also, good framework arguments are essential, not just boring pre-written blocks but a good framework that clashes and interacts with the Aff. Also, Process/Conditon/Consult counterplans do not fly so well with me. These debates are extremely boring and no fun at all, so come well prepared if you’re going to run one. I’m a bit favorable to the perm, especially if the aff can give a good explanation about the perm. Don’t spend a lot of time on politics theory either, I don’t think they’re good solid arguments. Politics is a pretty standard and basic off-case, and theory shouldn’t play a big part in the aff strat against it.Other things: About flashing and prep-time, I end prep time when the flash drive leaves the computer. With speaking, please make sure that you are clear and that you signpost. I’m fine with going fast, just make sure your tags are at a different pace. Tag-team on cross-x is fine with me. Make a lot of jokes, a debate with some laughs is way better than any other debate.
  