
  I am open to all types of arguments and styles of debate. The debaters frame the round so you must explicitly tell me how the round should be framed and weighed. I default to policy marker/utilitarian. Spreading is fine as long as you are clear on the tags and you delineate the cards. If after I call clear, you're still unclear, I'm going to put my pen down, indicating that I'm not flowing what you're saying. I'm a very tab judge and will evaluate the round as close to the flow as possible.

I am open to all topicality, theory, and kritik debates. I enjoy T and theory debates and it will be evaluated first unless convinced otherwise in the round. There has to be a clear link between the violation and the affirmative case. The affirmative can win the T debate if they prove that there is no link or that their interpretation is better. I ran traditional K debates in high school and have had all kinds of K's run against me. I don't have any biases against them or for them. That being said, I expect clear explanation and analysis of all Ks regardless of how common it is.

Counterplans are fine as long as there is a reasonable net benefit. I don't really believe PICS are bad but if the affirmative drops the ball on this, I can buy the argument. DA's are essential but the "and nuclear war" impact has gotten old so I would like to see different impacts. I really like case arguments because I personally haven't debated and researched this topic so it's interesting to learn about the different affirmatives (this also means I don't know any of your acronyms so don't keep repeating an acronym when I have no idea what it means). I think it can be disappointing when the 1AC reads a great case only so Neg can link into DA's that they read every single round.

I will likely use CX to evaluate your understanding of the case that you are presenting. If you need your partner to jump in and answer questions for you, it reflects on your own understanding of what you are presenting - take that as you will. Prep time starts when CX ends unless I am told that you don't need prep time. Prep ends when the flash drive leaves your computer.

TL;DR I'll vote for any argument you can explain, defend, and win.
  