
  - I debated at Lee’s Summit North High School – Lee’s Summit, MO - for all four years. I was a competitive public forum debater and extemper.

- I competed in two years of Mock Trial while attending Lee’s Summit North.

- I competed in one year of Mock Trial at the collegiate level at UMKC.

First and foremost, I am not concerned with who you are as a person. I come in to each round without preconceptions. That being said, I enjoy humor and I enjoy witty comments; however, I do not enjoy watching people cross the line from witty to rude. Not having respect for your opponents will result in speaker points being docked.

Policy Paradigm:

I believe the Aff needs to remain topical. I will without a doubt vote on T. With that said, if the Aff wins the argument and is not topical, I have no problem voting for you.

K’s – Make sure you don’t end up confusing me. Make sure I am able to completely understand what you are trying to convey. Otherwise, don’t bother.

The 2NR/2AR are very important for you as debaters and receiving a ballot in your favor. I expect you to identify to me what the important issue is. What the debater tells me matters the most is the most important thing in the round. If there are arguments that have not been won, work hard to pull those arguments to your side of the ballot. In all honesty, weighing each side’s evidence in my decision calculus is something I do after every round. It is fair to say I am easily classified as a Policymaker.

Do not just say “extend contention X”. Reiterate the points - it takes an extra five seconds.

Help me flow. Use tags and signpost.

Spreaders may need to adjust their speed on the fly in the round. I can flow pretty quickly, but still get behind occasionally. I am completely fine with spreading because it can be a great tool. However, poor spreading can also ruin a round (words running together, data being slurred). If you see I am falling behind on flow, slow down. You will not be very happy when you get your ballot back if I couldn’t keep up with you and lost some of your arguments. Just something to keep in mind.
  