
  As a background I've been involved in debate in some way shape or form since the year 2000. I have coached at a high level and have judged everything from local tourneys to finals of TOC qualifiers. If you don't find answers to how to debate in front of me in here feel free to ask.

I am fine with speed as long as you are clear. I have never had a round where i couldn't flow and a debater wasn't just mumbling.

My aim is to have the best round possible, that means I like clear arguments that are not only based in evidence but logic.After you make your argument don't just leave it out there on its own, support it and tell me why I should value it.

While I believe a flow is important it is not the end all be all. If you win the flow but your arguments are crap I will treat them as such.

Depending on the type of debate can change how I view certain arguments. For instance framework is good in LD, but in PF I don't like it.

The K does not belong in LD in my opinion. However I will never simply dismiss an argument. If you are a K style debater and choose to run one in front of me just make sure that it is topical and show a clear link trail.

Do not use theory unless it is needed in round. Theory as a strat going into round is not good. With that said though I am not the biggest fan of plans in LD as I think the focus of the event is to address the topic as a whole not pick and choose. If you want a plan debate policy.


For Policy QUICK SUMMARY (if you are accessing this on your iPhone as the round is starting):
Speed is OK.
T, theory and Ks OK but explain them to me.
Tag-team c/x OK.
No prep time for flashing.
Vote on potential abuse? No
Multiple conditional positions? Depends if you can defend it.
I like to see effort put into arguments, you should only run arguments you think you can actually win, I dont like time sucks.
I due tend to like some old school policy, meaning when possible I love to see on case attacks. Anything more specific feel free to ask me in round I will never bite someones head off for asking paradigm questions.

If you have any other questions ask and I will be glad to tell you.
  