
  Who Is this guy/Qualifications
Freshman debater at UMKC. Debated for Sioux Falls Roosevelt for four years in high school.
1x ToC Qualifier
3x NSDA/NFL Qualifer (Elims all 3 times, 2nd place my junior year)

General
Prep stops when the flashdrive leaves the computer. I’m not super fond of speed- I think slower debates can be more informative, and they allow people with sensory/processing disabilities more access to the debate space which is good. I think tech > truth. I’ll listen to any argument, but the more silly and out there arguments will be harder to win in front of me. I’d rather listen to two off case than ten. That said, I can still understand your speed if you’re clear. Good spin > Good cards.

Kritiks
I’m sure most people only care about this section. I’m fine with Ks. I’ve read a lot of the Cap K throughout my high school career, but I’m most likely familiar with the basics of whatever K you want to read. Alt solvency probably matters. I’m 50/50 on whether the Aff gets to weigh their advantages- I think you most definitely have to justify them. Specific links on Ks are always good. Good turns case analysis is a great way to boost your speaks.

K Affs
I’ve been on both sides of this debate. I think K Affs that have a tie to the resolution are much more persuasive on questions of framework, and affs that can provide a method for solvency are even better. I usually prefer listening to counter Ks rather than T, but I’ll still vote on T if it is won. I prefer Affs that don’t use personal narratives due to the non-falsifiability of narratives, but I’ll listen to them with an open mind.

Topicality
I think I’m slightly neg leaning on T, that said, I’ll still vote for untopical policy affs if they win on T. I think I’ll probably defer to competing interps, but I can be convinced on reasonability. I think you need good reasons why your aff is key to education or why excluding it is bad for the topic.

CPs
Ya they’re chill. I think I’ll be pretty aff leaning on cheating cps and questions of mutual exclusivity. I think I’m a good judge for condo bad- but have some nuance to it. Make sure you spend substantial time on the theory if you want it to be a voting issue, and not just a reason to reject the argument. Specific CPs will be rewarded with speaker points.

Politics
Ya, run it.

Other Das
Ya, run them. Link can control direction of uniqueness or uniqueness can control direction of link.
  