
  Name - Tom Kruse
History - Emory Debater 1981-85 for Melissa Wade and Bill Newnam
High School Debate at Byrd HS in Louisiana for Don Belanger

Current school affiliation - father of a Memorial HS Houston Debater

I am currently a trial lawyer in Houston, Texas, and I debated for a number of years in high school and college on the national circuit. I also was fortunate enough to have debated during graduate school at the University of St Andrews in Scotland (parliamentary style).

I am a basic, policy judge with a leaning toward trying to be tabula rosa ("clean slate") on new arguments. Back when I was in debate, we argued paradigms and framework, and game theory, hypothesis testing, and policy making was all around. We ran conditional arguments, critical debate was in its infancy, and topicality was stretched to the limit. So, the bottom line is, I have seen a lot of the tricks, even though I am an old dog.

I prefer clarity, analysis and synthesis of arguments - that means you have to explain to me and persuade. I can handle any level of speed, depth of critical or framework analysis, but I still maintain one rule: I actually have to understand what you are saying. If you are reading your argument off the page so fast that it blurs into something unintelligible, it
probably is. Also, please try to signpost.

I do not have any particular leaning on affirmative or negative, but I do believe strongly that each needs to square up and defend their side of the resolution. That means no topical counterplans. I am fine with counter plans that are conditional, and I have no problem with all kinds of disadvantages, just make sure you link them up and show impact. For example, if you argue nuke war and your opponent does as well, tell me why yours is either going to occur first, be more probable on a statistical level, or be global instead of regional. Draw comparisons between your position and arguments and those of your opponents, and you will have gone a long way to persuade me.

I love good cross examination; it is an art which never goes out of style.

Happy hunting.

Tom Kruse, Houston TX 2009
  