
  Chiu 1994 (Daina C, Doctor of Law (JD), Law@berkeley, The Cultural Defense: Beyond Exclusion, Assimilation, and Guilty Liberalism, 82 Cal. L. Rev. 1053, http://scholarship.law.berkeley.edu/californialawreview/vol82/iss4/9, LB)

One of her harshest critics, Benjamin R. Tong, took aim at Kingston after she published The Woman Warrior. According to Tong, Kingston was trying to cash in on a feminist fad.42 9 In so doing, she was "selling out... her own people" by addressing her work to a white audience.43 Frank Chin, Jeffrey Paul Chan, Lawson Fusao Inada, and Shawn Wong pointedly excluded Kingston's novel from the reissue of their Asian American literary anthology.4 3 They argue that The Woman Warrior is a Chinese American collaborationist work that incarnates "the racist mind" of white supremacist America.4 32 In Chin's view, The Woman Warrior is a "stroke of white racist genius [that] attacks Chinese civilization, Confucianism itself, and where its life begins: the fairy tale."4'33 Kingston's rewriting of Fa Mulan, a Chinese fairy tale figure, into a champion of Chinese feminism is a call to "dump the Chinese race and make for white universality."4 34 As for Amy Tan's use of a fairy tale, Chin flatly states that "[t]he fairy tale is not Chinese but white racist. It is not informed by Chinese intelligence. 4 35 Chin alludes to Hong Kingston's and Amy Tan's work as ventriloquizingthe same old white Christian fantasy of little Chinese victims of the original sin of being born to a brutish, sadomasochistic culture of cruelty and victimization fleeing to America in search of freedom from everything Chinese and seeking white acceptance, and of being victimized by absurd stupid white racists and then being reborn in acculturation and honorary whiteness.4 36 Whereas Professor Crenshaw points to the attempt by African American men to minimize the projection of negative stereotypes into white society as part of the rationale behind their silencing African American women,4 37 I believe that the rationale that underlies criticism of Asian American women by Asian American men is different. Consider the tenor and content of the criticism leveled at Asian American women writersFrank Chin asserts that Chinese American men have been silenced: "Our white-dream identity being feminine, the carriers of our strength, the power of the race belongs to our women."438 Tong argues that, in order to cater to the expectations of white audiences,Kingston portrays Chinese American women as victims of "perpetual torment at the hands of awful yellow men.' 439 For Chin, the Chinese woman in The Woman Warrior is a "pathological white supremacist vicitimized and trapped in a hideous Chinese civilization" 0 which does not deserve to survive because it is so misogynistic."' The claim is that Asian American women's challenge to patriarchy repudiates the validity, integrity, and worth of Asian culture and traditions. Throughout this criticism run the common strands of betrayal and identity.When Asian American women rebel, break the rules, and criticize things Asian, we are pandering to racist exoticism or white feminists, but most of all, we are race traitors." 2 Our rebellion threatens the communityand culture, and unsettles cripples Asian American male identity.Our charge, then, in the name of racial solidarity, is to obey without question our cultural traditions, preserve them, and transmit them unchanged and intact. In this paradigm, Asian American identity becomes predicated on adhering to cultural traditions that were created by men and that privilege men. In such an equation, an attack on culture becomes an attack on male identity. This rush to preserve culture prevents us from engaging in the important task of examining how power and subordination work in particularly gendered ways in our communities. In the intersection between culture and gender-notably, in the cultural defense debate-culture prevails and gender disappears. Such bracketing of gender to preserve culture essentializes the Asian American woman's identity as a cultural caretaker and leaves Asian American women with fragmented selves. We can only exist as the essential Asian American women that Asian American men want us to be. Our identities will be forever unfinished and unconstructed. More disturbing is that thisparadigm can pit Asian American men and women against each other: his identity derives from her preservation and transmission of a culture that often privileges him by subordinating and devaluing her;her identity is shaped by challenge to, as well as exploration and acceptance of, that same culture. Asian American women's challengeto patriarchy is forbidden trespass on the cultural terrain of Asian male prerogative. Asian American women's construction and reconstruction of Asian and Asian American culture through this process of questioning and challenge are savagely attacked and their efforts derided as fake,4 3 illegitimate, unauthorized, and unauthentic. But challenge is not repudiation. Reconstruction is not betrayal. Reworking subordinating myths to inspire and empower is a vital and necessary enterprise. We can debate the meritsof Maxine Hong Kingston's exploration of Chinese American cultureand there is ample room for disagreement, but to excoriate and condemn her (and other Asian American women) for exploring new cultural terrain and identity, and for expanding the limits of Asian American women's lives, serves no other purpose than the continued privileging of men through the subordinating and silencing of women. For Asian American women, identity is not and cannot be an essence distilled from unquestioned acceptance of tradition. As Asian American women, we must be free to construct our own multiple and varied selves, selves which leave room for all the multilayered, complex threads of our cultures and traditions.Asian American women need and deserve the opportunity to confront inequities and imbalances of power, and the hidden assumptions of race, gender, culture, and tradition. In the cultural defense debate and in larger society, the focus must allow for uncertainties and unknowns, and identities must be constructed, not essentialized. Identities of shifting, multiple selves, in which no aspect dominates. Identities in which contradictions and contradictory selves remain.
  