
  Debate experience:
Four years (2007-2011) University High School in Newark, New Jersey
Judge Strikes: University High School.


If you are reading this before a round or before you are doing your judge prefs just consider a few things 

I did policy debate competitively throughout high school so I am fine with speed, debate jargon, etc.You can consider me Tabula Rusa. I do not have any preferences as many judges say before the round but of course we all have those arguments that we are probably more familiar with. I was 2n for most of my debate career as I enjoyed running Kritiques, but that does not mean that I have not run pics, politics, D/As etc. I will evaluate your arguements on a few terms:

A. Understand your argument and the way it should be used in the round. When I say understand your argument I mean do not put a bunch of words and debate jargon together and think that you have made an argument. You should know how to use certain arguments and how effective they will be for the end of the debate round.
B. Be persuasive! This is a huge thing for me! I hate when debaters become so entrenched with speed that they forget that this is a public speaking activity. DO not force speed, if you feel as if you have to just slow down and explain yourself. This does not mean I want you to consider this like a public forum round; rather, there is a way to have speed and persuade me through efficient impact calc, overviews, hand gestures, proper warrant analysis, stresses on certain arguments, cross applications, etc. (I can go on forever). I need you to tell me why I should vote for you, if you do not then I can not vote for you.
**PLEASE remember I am a new judge so it will take me time to get in the mindset of a judge so just be aware that you are persuading a debater fresh out of high school (I will consistently update my wiki to let you know my experience in judging rounds per year on each topic).
C. My coach always told me that 2nrs/2ars are the most important speeches.(It is on his wiki actually "Kurt Shelton") So tell me what I should vote for. I do think that subjectivty is inevitable in judging debate rounds but I will try my best to be as objective as possible and listen before I act.


I am not going to tell you what I think you should do for every type of argument because at the end you will do what you want anyways. I cannot tell you if I prefer reasonability over competing interpretations because I truly do not know. I am not going to tell you if I prefer the K over Politics because it is not about what I like rather how you articulate the argument you find the most strategic in the round. That being said, do not ask me those two questions :) 
DO NOT change your debating style for me because I think that hurts you the most, just be persuasive, make sense, and have fun and you will receive my ballot.
I will tell you that I evaluate the debate on what is occurring and I make the most logical sense possible.


Most importantly have fun and be respectful please !!! A smile or a joke once in a while does not hurt debaters :) I love debaters who have fun it makes me have fun as well (which I like by the way it is much better than being bored).
I have seen many disrespectful people in debate so please do not add another person to my list.


I am open to specific questions before the round 
I am so excited for this year lets make this an awesome year!
  