
  I debated for four years as a lone wolf on the local and national circuits. I'm a freshman at NYU Stern.

Princeton ’15: I haven’t judged a debate round in almost 1 year. Everything below generally still applies, but bear this HEAVILY in mind if I’m judging you. I’m probably not going to be able to evaluate a heavy theory debate as well as i used to be able to”


Short version:
*It’s your job to make sure that I understand your arguments; I won’t vote on them if I don’t understand them* 
I really like substantive rounds with a non-util framework but you can run other things as long as they are smart.


I wasn’t great at flowing when I was a debater. I would not advise speaking at your top speed. Please pause before/after card names and clearly signpost in later speeches. I will say clear or slow, but if you don’t slow down and I miss something, it will be your fault.

Long version:

Substance- Go for it. I really like substantive debates. 

Theory- Theory is fine, but it is hard to flow so please slow down. I default to competing interps and drop the argument, but you should make the arguments yourself. If you go for reasonability, you need to justify a brightline. Even if your counter-interp is offensively worded, read an RVI.

Policy- Policy args are fine. Speak clearly, weigh evidence, and don’t use fancy policy jargon. 

Ks- I’ll vote on your K if it is simple and well explained and/or strongly linked to the topic. Most of the time, I don’t think they make that much sense, so keep this in mind if you are a K debater. The role of the ballot is always to vote for who did the better debating. 

Other notes:

-Some arguments are sketchy but also interesting. That being said, don’t run a case in front of me if it is mostly blippy spikes, triggers, and theory preempts. 
-Reiterate important CX concessions in later speeches because I don’t flow CX.
-You can ask questions about my decision, but I won’t sit through a grill session with your coach.
-I prefer not to disclose speaks.

Feel free to clarify anything in this paradigm with me before the round.
  