
  Overview- Do what you do best. Everything I say here should only be taken as a suggestion but I'll vote on pretty much anything if you give me a reason to. I'll default to evaluating the round in an offense/defense paradigm but you can convince me to vote on pure defense. Most importantly, you need to do warranted and comparative analysis to win my ballot. I won't vote on an argument that is shallowly extended even if it's completely conceded by the other team. 


T- I default to competing interpretations and I think limits is the most important standard. 

Theory- Condo is probably ok. Neg fiat is ok unless it's straight up conceded in which case neg fiat is terrible. PICS are awesome. Process, Consult, and Actor CP's are justifiable. 

Ptix- My favorite argument. The neg only has to not concede intrinsicness and fiat solve the link for me not to evaluate them. Remember to do comparative analysis on the uniqueness and link over just reading a lot of cards.
K-I'm not the most familiar with the literature, outside of Anthro and Heidegger, so you may have to break things down for me (especially if you're going for something like D&G or Virilio) but I'm more than willing to vote on the K. I don't lean either way on if the aff should get to access the 1AC impacts- that's entirely up to the debaters in the round to decide. I like to judge K rounds where the 2NR is focused more on analytical analysis over reading a lot of cards.
K Aff's-If you don't want to defend a plan text that's all good with me. I don't think you ruin ALL decision making and make debate impossible. That doesn't mean I won't vote on framework, I think that's a debate to be had, but you'll have to do the work just like any other argument. That being said I don't think relying on framework is the best neg strategy. I would rather see you go for a counter-advocacy or a K and actually engage with the aff.
Arguments that I won't evaluate and are ok to concede if you're debating them-Time Cube-Zombies (CP or DA)-Consult Jesus or the Ministry of Magic-Any spec except for Aspec or Fspec-Spreading K
 kailyn is my fav

Don't be racist, sexist, or ableist in round.

TL;DR I'll vote on almost anything, I want to intervene as little as possible, and I like warranted analysis. 
  