
  I debated LD for Loyola (CA), graduating in 2014. I qualified to TOC twice and reached finals as a senior. I’ve judged, coached, and worked at debate camps (Counterpoint, NSD, TDC) since graduating.

General
I'll vote for the side that requires me to do less work. When flowing, I attempt to write down as much of your original rhetoric as possible. When giving the RFD, I will try my best to reference what was said in round. A few other things:
Short extensions are fine. If your 5-card extinction scenario is conceded, briefly summarize the argument and move on to weighing. Just signpost carefully if your extension is short.I don’t call “clear” often but will give visual cues. It’s your job to watch for them. If I have to call clear, I’ve probably missed something.Slow down for tags, author names, advocacy texts, and theory interpretations. Please be nice! This usually isn’t a problem, but I agree with Benjamin Koh: “If it's nasty to say to somebody outside of debate it absolutely is in the debate round. Kindness should matter more.”
Visual Cues
I will try to be intentionally expressive for your benefit, though you can ask me not to be. Here are some expressions I tend to make and what they usually mean.
Nod- I think you're correct on some technical issue, or you just made the optimal or most intuitive response to a position or argument. Technical issues pertain either to a section of the flow (ex. the 1AR didn't extend any offense) or the function of an argument (ex. the argument labeled as a "turn" is really just mitigatory defense)Hand twirl- Your extension is sufficient. You should move on.Looking up at the ceiling- I’m having trouble following your argument. Your best bet is to slow down and verbally emphasize the important parts.Looking at you with confused face during your speech- I don't understand either the argument itself or the decision to spend more time on it.Looking at you with confused face during your opponent's speech- I hope you point out what's wrong with the argument just made.
Lack of one of these expressions doesn't imply lack of an opinion. In that case, I'm likely just not sure enough of my opinion to convey it.

 Speaker Points
These are mostly based on (execution of) strategy and effort in giving a clear decision calculus. The following might also help your speaks:
Make the round enjoyable to judgeUse little prep, and/or extemp significant portions of speechesGive clear and concise overviews in final speechesCompare/indict evidence effectively (the more nuanced, the better)Neutralize silly arguments efficientlyExplain an innovative position wellAsk before the round if you want more suggestions.

See also:  Andrew Bower on the role of the ballot, Mark Gorthey on non-intervention, and Nick Rogers on Kant.
  