
  The paradigm below is 3 years old, ask if you have any questions. Not much has changed. 

I debated at Northland Christian School for 4 years, qualifying for the TOC 3 of the 4 years.

Short Version: Debate is a game. I believe that you can debate any way you would like. If you want to read specialized role of the ballot arguments or a common value debate go for it. Have fun; it is your debate round. There is nothing I won't vote on besides (racism good, or morally repugnant arguments).

Long Version:

Speed: I’m fine with speed.

Theory/T: T is an issue of competing interps. Theory is reasonability. You need an RVI to win a theory debate if you are responding to theory. I don't recommend collapsing to theory in the 1ar unless you have to. I think, in general, theory is drop the argument and T is drop the debater. I don’t believe there is such thing as "frivolous" theory. Debate is a game of seconds and every second sucked is probably good, especially if your negating. These are all just defaults. You can make arguments the say the opposite and I will obviously vote on them.

K’s: You can run them if you like. I used to read K’s often, but be smart. Reading a 7 minute K and not going to the aff is not going to get you great speaks. Also, I think role of the ballot arguments are not as persuasive as arguments that appeal to fairness, because how can I evaluate something that already skews your opponent’s chance of winning. I still will vote on these arguments.

Framework Debate: I don’t understand dense philosophy frameworks too well. If you want to read them, slow down and be sure you know how to explain them very simply.

Policy arguments: I enjoy policy arguments. Be strategic with the plans/counterplans or disads you read. I understand these arguments well and ran these types of arguments frequently. I will read evidence on this debate if the debate is not clear or there is no weighing. Please weigh.

Extensions: If there is any ink what so ever on an argument it must require some response before or right after you extend an argument. If they concede an argument then just extend it quickly but spend more time on the implication.

Speaks: I will base speaks on strategy and by the tournament field.

Also:
-Spikes are fine, but know that they are not as persuasive if they are your whole strategy.
-Don’t be a jerk. It will harm your speaks. Seriously being mean has led to people quitting the activity, don't do it.
-I won’t vote on things that are morally repugnant.
-I will disclose speaks if asked.

Have fun. Be strategic. Ask questions if you need to.
  