
  I did four years of debate in high school. One year PF, three LD. That being said, I participated in a very Traditional district with a large number of lay judges. So, a few things from that.
1. Don't spread. Just don't do it. I personally and professionally hate it. I think it serves no purpose besides excluding disadvantaged students from the debate. Speaking quickly is not arguing well. As my friend Jess says "Debate is becoming even more elitist that it already is, because its become who can physically articulate evidence the fastest, instead of who can actually debate the best." Don't be elitist. Don't spread. I will tell you to slow down, and if you don't, I will stop flowing. If your opponent tells you to slow down, and you don't, I will stop flowing.
2. I don't know a lot of debate jargon. I went to camp a few times so I get the general layout and style of certain arguments, but a lot of the more progressive language will fly right over my head because I never used it in high school. As such, if I look confused, I am. Stop and explain to me what you're trying to argue. If I can't understand your argument, I will have a hard time giving it any weight in the round.
3.I appreciate good argumentation. I have found that I can follow pretty much any argument you throw at me as long as you articulate it well. Actually, especially if you articulate it well. I'm a big fan of well-thought out arguments with good evidence that are presented well. 

On to specifics
Values: These to me are very important. They let me know how to weigh the arguments given in the round. So tell me why your value is the most important value in the round. Weigh them for me, so I am not left on my own to do it. It will make my job easier and ~potentially~ make it more likely that you win. If you and your opponent share the same value, let me know how you achieve it better. Make it explicitly clear. I want strong links and things I can easily underline on my flow.
VC: yeah, these are super important too. Actually, more important than Values. These should literally tell me exactly how you achieve your value and why you case is the only case that can achieve in the round. Framework debate like defines LD, so do it well.
~I like clash~I like it a whole bunch. As a debater, it was fun to have. As a judge, it is necessary for me to actually evaluate the round. If there isn't any, manufacture it. I don't want to have to shrug and decide based on speaker points.
Arguments:
Ones I like: pretty much anything with good warrants. If you can back it up, I will too.
Ones I don't like: Anything purposely and explicitly racist, sexist, elitist, etc. Just don't be rude. If you are, I will vote you down. Point blank. If you are rude to your opponent, or any of the above -ists, you are going to lose.
K's: Right yeah these exist. I know the parts of them. I have heard some good ones, and I will listen and weigh the good ones. But only the good ones. Don't waste my time with a K you're running just to screw with you opponent. I will place very little weight on it in round. Also, side note. I get that people are expected to attack K's in a certain way. But screw that. If you can make a logical, well developed argument against the basis of the K, backed up with evidence besides common sense, I honestly don't care what rhetoric you use.
Counterplans: Unlike a lot of traditional debaters, I totally am down with CP's. So long as they don't exclude your opponent. If you picked a minute plan that literally nobody else at the tournament will have prepped for, I won't be too pleased. With plans like those, weighing arguments that essential saying who cares are going to be strong, especially if rebuttals are weak. The rest I'm chill with. Make sure there's impacts in them though. And don't exclude your value. (also, same thing with K's, rhetoric is not as important as the actual argument. Tell me where to put the argument, and I'll do it)
DA's: I'll weigh 'em if you tell me how to. Pretty ambivalent but if they're good, they can be really good ways to show flaws in your opponent's case. 
Theory: Putting this way down here because why not. If it's complex theory, see my thing above about me getting confused. I enjoy theory, read a significant bit on the side for fun, but make sure to keep it inclusive and useful. Don't run something obscure just to exclude your opponent, and don't run theory just to run theory. Have a point to it.
~Weighing Mechanism~ These are a judges best friend! Give them to me!! They make my life easier and the easier you make my life, the better. So with every single argument 1. relate it to your V/VC. If you can't, don't make it. 2. make sure you prove why and how your opponent is not winning. (do it in a nice way though)

Beyond that, ask me any specific questions in round. What I want most in a round is a good, fun debate. Hopefully you do this because you like this. Good luck!
  