
  Judging Philosophy – Toran Langford –Damien High School

Hello!

I'm Toran and I used to debate for Holy Cross School in New Orleans, LA. I did LD, and world schools in high school, but I do know enough about most debate events (PF, LD, CX, WS). I currently coach debate for Damien High School and attend Pomona College.

Holy Cross '17
Pomona '21
I debated for four years (3 in LD, 1 in Policy)

To add me to email chains: mjacksonTL1998[at]gmail.com

Short Version
Firstly, RUN WHATEVER YOU WANT. I prefer kritikal debates, but Ill vote on anything clearly articulated and fleshed out, it has to be WEIGHED.I am not the best judge for Theory, it has to be really clear.I vote for clearly defended arguments, and you must extend offense.I will vote for kritikal affirmatives and negativesI am flow, so I’m ok with speed. But, I will try to flow any intelligible speed. I will not yell “Clear,” that is like coaching you.Don’t be a Prep Time Thief.Please flash your cases with USB or email. If it isn’t flashed before the round, you have limited time to do so during the round.

Longer Version

LD DEBATE

 Kritiks – There is a special place in my heart for Kritks (I LOVE Ks). I specialized in Anti-Blackness and read most of the literature. However, I will not be a Curry or Wilderson Hack. Thus, don’t just read anti-black arguments if you don’t understand them. I will drop you. I do prefer ROB or ROJ framing for Ks, but I need at least Value/VC. Clear arguments are easier to vote for, do my job for me, that’s the safest bet. Bad Kritik debates are some of the worst debates as they avoid engaging the debate. Please don’t be generic.

Theory – Good theory arguments are essential to prevent abuse. Bad Theory arguments make it harder for me. Most debaters are horrible at justifying that arguments are a reason to vote against a debater. Theory is not my forte.

ALL DEBATE

 Offense and Defense – Offense gives you options to win and pressure the other debater(s). Defense is necessary to counteract with offensive arguments. Defensive arguments can take out a position because it’s often a contradiction. I will not default to "There is always some risk," I need real impact calculus. I may vote on defensive arguments, if they take out the entirety of a case.

PLEASE WEIGH. For some reason, debaters (especially varsity circuit debaters) forget there is a such thing as VOTERS.

 Prep Time – I prefer for debaters to provide a USB or Email copy of every card they read to their opponent before the speech. For paper readers, the copies can be handed to them as they are read. A) Reading over someone’s shoulder is NOT ok as it is distracting and unfair.My time is official.
  