
  I debated for 4 years at Damien High School and currently attend Brown University, qualified to the ToC junior and senior year

Caveat before anything else: I have done absolutely no topic research, and have not judged a debate in roughly 18 months, so do not expect me to understand anything complex about the topic -- I will understand the arguments you're making just fine, but anything jargon/acronym-heavy should be articulated more clearly


I don’t have any specific argumentative preferences. I've debated both sides of the spectrum and enjoy them both and find academic validity to each. Therefore, I will vote on anything as long as it is debated well. I think one of the major problems with policy debate is a lack of argumentative comparison. One of the biggest misconceptions debaters have is that reading multiple mediocre cards is more effective than a thoroughly explained analytic argument. I will reward teams who go beyond shallow extensions of their cards and actually explain how different arguments in the debate interact with one another and implicate my decision making process. Speed is completely fine with me but I strongly believe that speakers who are slightly slower but clearer are far more efficient debaters. Remember that getting arguments out quickly is only beneficial if I am able to record them on my flow. One last general thing I want to mention is that I believe that debaters should be held to a rigorous standard for evidence quality. Warranted and qualified evidence is always better than low quality evidence that happens to be power worded.

One of the most important part of resolving the debate for me is impact calculus. Impact calculus is more than just “DA outweighs the case”. These are the sorts of things that decide close debates and improve your speaker points.Tell me how to evaluate the debate, and absent some comparison about the relative importance of competing arguments, some “intervention” is inevitable if I have to resolve the quality of uniqueness evidence or whatever is in question. The impact calculus is important and doesn’t only apply to the “Impact” portion of the debate and should be applied to every aspect of the debate and these can act as “framing arguments” for how I should evaluate and prioritize arguments in the debate.


Critiques: I am fine with critical arguments but think they are often poorly executed. In my opinion, unless your link stories are framed in a way that interacts with specific portions of the affirmative you will have a hard time making me believe your impact scenarios and you will be highly susceptible to permutations. Affirmative framework interpretations that exclude all critical arguments are going to be a tough sell for me but I also think most common negative interpretations are abusive and easy to beat. I find myself voting on the critique more often than not, on k-tricks or turns the case arguments that are dropped, so if you are aff please answer them.
"Perfomance/Non-traditional" - I enjoy them but explain to me why the ballot is important and why the debate round matters. 

Counterplans: Like many judges I am easily persuaded that cheating process counterplans are theoretically illegitimate.


Theory: Well-constructed theory arguments go a long way in front of me although I don’t have many personal biases regarding them. I am not a fan of short cheap shot theory arguments. Just because somebody dropped your hidden theory argument you spent three seconds on doesn’t mean I automatically sign the ballot for you.


Politics: Evidence comparison is huge. 
Topicality: My default position in topicality debates is to evaluate competing interpretations. I think these debates often come down to impact comparison and think that the more in depth you go on this level of the debate the more likely I will be to vote for you.


At the end of the day I will be fine with whatever you read as long as you debate it well. I won’t completely disregard arguments because I don’t think they are good and similarly will not hack out for arguments just because I have a personal preference for them.
  