
  Jack Lassiter - 2016-17
I competed in policy debate for six years. Gonzaga will be my first tournament judging this topic.
Framework
My experience with debate has left me with an appreciation for framework debates. I personally gravitate towards arguments concerning the strategic, critical, or pedagogical utility of the activity - I am readily persuaded to vote for an interpretation of the activity's purpose, role, or import in almost any other direction [Any position I encounter that I find untenable and/or unwinnable will be promptly included in the updates below] 
The Kritik
I have almost no rigid expectations or biases with regard to the K. I spent a great deal of my time competing reading Security, Queer Theory, and Psychoanalysis arguments. The bodies of literature that I am most familiar with in terms of critical thought are rhetorical theory (emphasizing materialism) and semiotics. I don't claim much knowledge concerning the work of Jacques Derrida and Gilles Deleuze, but I would say I have an operative understanding and relative familiarity with a number of concepts that both thinkers are concerned with. Finally, my interest and work with continental philosophy primarily involves Heidegger, Levinas and Derrida.
Topicality:
I think that by virtue of evaluating a topicality flow I almost have to view interpretations in terms of competition. I can't really explain reasonability to myself in any persuasive way, if that changes there will surely be an update about it.
Counterplans:
Theory debates are great - I reward strategic decisions that embed an explanation of the argument's contingent and applied importance to the activity when going for a theory argument on a counterplan.
I believe that permutations often prompt crucial methodological and theoretical reflection in debate - structurally competitive arguments are usually generative of the most sound strategic and methodological prescriptions.
Disads
If you were to ask me for an explanation of the standard I would like to hold in my evaluation of uniqueness and link debates, I would want to read the first two sub-points from Calum Matheson's paradigm.
Updates:
Gonzaga 2016:
Damien Debate - Berkeley 2016
In judging I am necessarily making comparisons. Making this process easier by developing or controlling the structure of comparisons and distinctions on my flow is the best advice I could give to anyone trying to make me vote for an argument.
I don't feel like it is really possible to fully prevent myself from intervening in a decision if neither team is resolving questions about how I should be evaluating or weighing arguments. I believe this can be decidingly important in the following contexts: The impact level of framework debates, The impact level of any debate really, The method debate in a K v K round, The link debate... The list goes on. But, identifying particular points of clash and then seeing how they are resolved is almost always my approach to determining how I will vote, so doing that work explicitly in the round will almost always benefit you. 
If you have any questions about my experience, argumentative preferences, or RFD's feel free to ask me at any time in person or via email.
I may on occaison request pieces of evidence, if thats the case it can be sent to my email: Jack.Lassiter4@gmail.com
  