
  Coach at Washington Tech in St. Paul, MN
Debated Policy at Roseville Area High School
Debating Policy at University of Minnesota


Summary:
Pretty tab.

Topicality:
I think I'm more willing than other judges to vote on T -- especially if you have lots of good standards with in-depth analysis of them, multiple voters if appropriate, etc.
Counterinterps go a long way for aff teams. Affs should also do their best to respond to as many neg standards as possible, as well as provide standards if they have a counterinterp. This is one of the major ways I evaluate T-debates, but also don't forget to claim "not a voter".
If you're neg, and kick out of a bad disad to make the aff seem more untopical for your T argument, I will probably like that (assuming you articulate what you're doing well).

Theory:
Willing to evaluate theory as both strategic offense and a check on abuse, as long as it makes sense/is explained well.

Framework:
Will vote for well-explained framework arguments. Especially appreciate clash in fw debates -- I don't like voting for a team just because their framework was dropped.
If your critical argument is centered around identity politics and you don't respond to the other team's identity politics, I will probably find this problematic on your ballot.

K/Performance:
Love K debates. On-case analysis will most often help in conjunction with the K (I assume multiple worlds unless either side brings in theory arguing otherwise). Also appreciate clear ROBs -- I'll vote wherever is easiest and clearest on my flow.

PICs/PIKs:
Will vote on these, but also open to "plan-inclusive _ are abusive". You should have theory to back up a plan-inclusive off-case.

Disadvantages:
Disads are disads -- politics, environment, it's all fair game.

Counterplans:
Neg team must prove net-benefit for counterplan for me to vote for it. On aff side, open to perms, but will interpret it as a defensive argument unless you can give a good reason for why it's an offensive one.

Technical/Other:
- I don't count flashing for prep, so long as the teams aren't irresponsible with that time.
- If you ask me if I allow tag-team cx I WILL VOTE YOU DOWN. Jk yeah of course it's cool.
- I'll usually flow cx. This is largely for my keeping up with the details of the debate, so don't worry about it. If you argue that crossex isn't binding I'll be open to that too.
- If you're fast, that's great. Just be clear.
- You should provide a viewing computer to an opposing paperless team. If you don't have a viewing computer to offer, you should do extra work to explain/show cards when necessary.
- Don't steal prep. If the clock isn't running, don't be typing your speech or talking with your partner.
- Impact calc is appreciated.
- Love a good link turn or impact turn here and there.
- Appropriate jokes are nice and will earn you some nice brownie points, no matter how awful.

Overall, have fun and be open to learning.
  