
  Alright, so I debated for 3 years at La Salle College High School in Pennsylvania. I debated on the local and national circuit, so I'm familiar with traditional and circuit styles.
I prefer traditional like Value/Value Criterion type cases, but alternative style cases like Kritiks and stuff are fine so long as they give me some way to evaluate the round. In addition, I don't believe that affirming/negating does anything. So if you run a micropolitics case telling me I should pick you up to raise awareness or whatever reason related to the real world implications of my ballot, I'm not gonna drop you on face, but I'm gonna be really sympathetic to your opponent. Feel free to run whatever your heart desires if you think you can win it on the flow, a case being ridiculous isn't enough for me to not vote for it. If anything, I really enjoy well argued ridiculous cases.
Theory is fine. I don't like dumb theory. AFC (affirmative framework choice) is dumb theory. I won't reject AFC on face, but there's like a 95% chance I wont vote on it, assuming your opponent addresses it in some way. Everyone has access to RVIs by default. I assume both sides can have RVIs unless you give me some reason that the other side shouldn't be allowed to have RVIs.
I can understand most speed. The thing about speed is it's not really an issue if you're going too fast. It's an issue if you're not clear enough. I've been able to follow people going exceptionally fast because they're really good at spreading and are really clear. I've also been unable to follow people only going slightly cause they're unclear. If you're spitting out words in a whispery monotone, you're probably not clear. Spread if youre good at it. 
I default to truth testing, not comparing worlds. I think comparing worlds is really subjective cause it's asking me to evaluate which world I like better. And the world I like might be different from the world some other judge likes. A lot of the time comparing worlds nullifies the framework debate as well. 
For speaker points, I default to 27.5 . Almost all of the time, points will fall between 25-30. 
Random other assorted things... I'm fine with flex prep.. I'll probably only time you sometimes,because usually your opponent is timing you to keep you honest. I almost always time prep time though. Also, if it's clear you've gone significantly over time I'm just gonna stop paying attention to what you have to say. 
And do weighing! Make it easy for me to evaluate the round and I will vote for you.
  