
  I am a freshman at Texas A&M University this year and debated with Northland Christian School for 4 years on both the local and national circuit. I have to warn you, I haven't judged all that much this year so just be wise when making argument selections and be careful with how fast you go. Chances are I will be able to keep up just make sure you start off a little slower and then speed up, but if you are going to go faster then you better be clear for me to catch everything. 

I will always default comparative worlds unless you give me a reason not to. If you want to run truth testing that is fine, but justify it.

As a general overview, I will listen to an arguments that you want to run. I have run more policy- making arguments so I will know those arguments and how they interact the best. If you are going to run the big impact cases though make sure that you weigh between impacts. Don't make me doing the weighing for you. That being said, I also understand any critical arguments that you want to run. If you are going to read dense philosophy or heavy framework than that is fine, but make sure that you can fully explain the argument. I will vote on any argument as long as it is well warranted and explained.

(Look to the top) Speed: You can go as fast as you want and I should be able to keep up. It is helpful if you slow down on things that you want to make sure I get, and if you are reading some critical or philosophical case I would suggest going just a tad slower. I am not as well versed in many of these arguments; therefore go a little slower so I can fully understand the argument. You do not have to stop going fast, but make sure that you are not blazing through the arguments.

Theory: If you want to run theory that that is good with me! I tend to default competing interpretations, unless you give me a reason not to. Make sure to explain the abuse story coming out of the theory shell. Please don't run theory just to run theory. Also, I will view theory as reject the argument unless you justify rejecting the debater. RVI's are good with me.

Framework: As said earlier I have debate mainly policy arguments in high school. Therefore, I am most comfortable with util and the big impact debate. However, I will vote on any framework as long as you win it. Just make sure to explain it well. I do not think that you have to stick with a stick value/ criterion structure, but make sure you give me something to evaluate the round by.

Extensions: Please don't just say extend. Make sure if you are extending a card to give the warrant and the impact in the round. I will give the 1AR some leeway on extensions, but the start still needs to be there especially for arguments that you are depending on in the round.

Random things:
- I am not going to want to vote on any a priori or skep triggers in your case. If they are unanswered and well extended in the next speech then I will, but you probably wont get as high of speaks. So make sure to answer these arguments!
- Be nice! If you are overly rude I will hit your speaks.
- I will not vote on anything that is morally repugnant such as genocide is good or racism is good etc.

Feel free to ask my any other questions that you have! Have fun debating!
  