
  Biography
I did policy debate for four years at Clear Lake in Houston, TX. Qualified for TFA State my later three years, broke at Grapevine and Houston Memorial and got to round 10 or 11 at NFL Nats. I was on the Harvard policy team my freshman year, but now just occasionally volunteer at the odd tournament. I've done both speaker positions.

Disclaimer: I usually judge three-four tournaments a year so I will not be as familiar with the topic. This can actually work in your favor if you run an affirmative that traditionally is not regarded as topical, as I will not have any biases against it.

Topicality - I hate running T as a time suck. Make sure you slow down when reading your interpretation and counter-interpretation. It's frustrating to hear a good standards debate and be unclear on what the actual clash on interpretations is on. I'm also partial to having the 2N only go for topicality if it is mentioned in the 2NR (aka don't spend 30 seconds on it in the 2NR and expect me to vote for you). Default competing interpretations.

Disads - Unique, interesting ones are great. Politics, spending, etc are fine as well. Spin me a good link story and I love impact debate on the top of the flow. Tell me why the DA turns or outweighs the case. 

Counterplans - PICs are tricky, I will listen to them but just letting you know I'm not a fan of sketchy ones like the "the" pic, etc. Specific topic ones are fantastic though (ex: pic of "sub-Saharan Africa"). Everything else is fine. If you are running an agent one, please ask the 1A who the actor is in the cross-x. It saves the ASPEC abuse story.

Kritiks - Explain how the alternative solves or at least is preferable to the case. If there is no alternative, explain why the status quo is preferable to the case (aka how the link and impact function in the world of the case and why it outweighs saving 10 million lives, etc). I am partial to the cap k and the global-local k (Nayar). I am not as familiar with k authors as I would like to be, so don't skimp on the explanations and throw around buzzwords.

Performance - Haven't judged one yet. You probably don't want me to be your judge. 

If you have any questions please email me jennyle03 at gmail.com. I'm also available for judging some weekends in the Greater Boston area.

Speaker point policy - 
High: 29.5
Mean: 27.5
Low: 26
  