
  I did LD for 4 years (2012-2016) on various circuits (TFA, TOC, UIL, NSDA). I debated a lot so I’ve seen, ran, and experienced a ton of different styles of debate.

My primary concern is this: If your position contains sensitive content please please please please READ A TRIGGER WARNING before you begin your speech. Sensitive content may include but is not limited to: Any slurs, mental illness, suicide, rape, intimate partner violence, any mention of violence against women, gender dysphoria, violence against Trans or Queer bodies, violence against any race or ethnic group, and violence against people with disability.

If you don't read a trigger warning and your position contains sensitive content, I am going to start you off at the lowest speaks that the tournament allows me to give. Please don’t make me do that!

Besides that, you can really do whatever you want. I think debaters should make the debate round their space. I don't want to have a lot of control over your space. 

If you want a little bit more detail: 

Performance/K: I did a lot of non-topical critical/performance debate at the end of my career, so I think I am pretty comfortable evaluating performance debate. Kritiks about critical theory should be well explained. I think there probably should be a mechanism to evaluate why the ballot should go to you like a framework or ROB.

Speed: You can go as fast as you want but you must be clear. Be wary that the farther we get from the day I graduated, the worse my flowing skills and understanding of spreading will be. I will say clear if you are unclear, or slow if you are too fast for me to catch what you said, but if you are unresponsive to me then you are putting your speaker points in danger.

Theory: I don't default to anything, you should tell me whether I should prefer reasonability or competing interps. I like theory and I think it’s strategic to read in rounds, even if it’s frivolous sometimes. High-level theory debates will probably go over my head because I did theory debate the least when I was debating. I don't like disclosure theory, especially if the position is topical and predictable. I don’t believe people should have to disclose.

T: I like T and think it's strategic. Read it if you'd like. 

Plans, CPs, DAs, or LARP: Yeah do it. I like this type of debate especially with good clear weighing. 

If I forgot anything or you're worried about anything, ask me about it. If you want you can email me with any questions at dannacleal@gmail.com. I think debate is a good activity so I am going to try my best to not make it suck for you.
  