
  I debated for McDowell High School in Pennsylvania for Three years. I did mainly policy and public forum, but Im still very familiar with LD.
Affiliation: McDowell High School

I'm not coaching a team, so i will not know the lingo of each topic. Meaning use basic topic jargon because i do not know the individual aspects of each topic. 

First of all, If you like policy arguments then i am a very good judge for you. I will evaluate your Plans, CP's, DA's etc. I will assume util to be true unless proven otherwise so have fun.
I was a pretty big K debater in high school, however if you don't explain the K well then i will assume that you don't know it either. So if you're going to read a K thats great, just explain it very clearly. Having an explicit role of the ballot will be helpful, and linking your impacts in will be very beneficial in the long run.

Theory
 Unfortunately for most people i am not a fan of theory. If you are a theory or tricks debater don't pref me. I will flow it and vote on it if there is actual in round abuse, but i am willing to buy potential abuse is not a reason to drop the debater. I would rather not have to judge a theory debate so if you go for it and win expect low speaks. I will guy check on theory if i think that the theory is frivolous, or if there is no actual in round abuse. I default to reasonability on topicality and drop the debater. Im willing to vote on topicality if the aff is reasonably untopical. 

Kritiks
 As i said above i would like you to explain the K well, which will prove to me you know the K well enough to deserve the win. Have solid links, preferably not links of omission. Win the alternative and the role of the ballot, i will vote on K's as a linear disad to the Aff if you win the K as a case turn. I like these arguments so have fun with them.

Plans, CP's, Da's
 Like them nothing wrong with them have fun.

Framework
 Unfortunately if you're a framework debater I'm probably not your best judge. I don't judge LD enough to be voiced in philosophy, so i presume util to be true for util debates but im willing to vote on any framework you present in the round. Warning: I will not vote on skep. 

Speed
 Slow down on tags and author names but overall I'm fine with speed.

Speaks
 If you want high speaks from me it will be pretty easy. Before each round I will tell y'all my word of the round that everytime you say it will give you +.5 speaks. If you talk to me about game of thrones or reference game of thrones in your speech you will get high speaks. If you know the R+L=J theory it will be a very good round for you. Have fun guys and make the round enjoyable and we will all have a good time.
  