
  I did 4 years of LD in high school. My style is definitely lay debate (think: the style of LD that’s in NSDA nationals finals), but I’m still open to any style of argument as long as it’s well-explained. I flow the entire debate. I’ve never been a big fan of spreading and non-topical arguments, but as long as I can understand you and you enunciate and speak clearly, I’m fine with it.

Your job as a debater is to persuade me that your side is right, so if you can persuade me that you won the key arguments in the round, I’ll give you the win. 

BACKGROUND:
I’m a first year student at UC Berkeley studying Business Administration and Psychology. In high school, I competed primarily in LD and oratory at the state and national level, as well as doing a bit of congress and extemp at the state level. Persuasion and presentation is very important in debate, but the technical parts of debate (ex: Value/VC debate) are equally important to me.

SPEAKING PREFERENCES:
I prefer debaters that speak clearly at a moderate pace anyone can understand. 
I don’t like spreading much, but you can spread as long as I can understand you. Slow down for taglines and important things and repeat them throughout the debate (ie don’t bring up an argument in passing in your 1AC, then never bring it up until your 2AC when you say it’s the reason you won your debate). 
If I can’t understand you, I’ll stop flowing and it’s your job as the debater to be receptive to your judge and slow down when you see me stop flowing. 

I’m relatively generous with speaking points, and do give wins to the debater with lower speaking points, but do remember that it never hurts to be more persuasive presentation-wise than your opponent. 

ARGUMENT PREFERENCES:
I like a lot of structure in the debate (eg road maps, taglines, etc.). In your refutation speeches, I like when I can clearly see where in the flow I’m supposed to put your argument -- I shouldn’t have to guess which argument you’re refuting. 
Give voting issues in your final speeches. Tell me why you won. 
I like line by line rebuttals in refutation speeches that can impact arguments in the context of the entire round. Tell me why the argument matters! It isn’t enough to prove that you won an argument because that argument might be a very insignificant one, so IMPACT! 
I give the win to the winner of the key arguments in the round, but you have to show me why the arguments (or argument) you won are the key arguments.
Establish the framework in your 1AC/1NC and show me why it’s the preferred framework throughout the debate if relevant.
Don’t slime in the 2AC.
I believe that LD is a philosophical form of debate, but that being said, evidence is still very important depending on the resolution, so use your best judgement.
I’m not a big fan of non topical/circuit debate (theory shells, K’s, CP’s, etc.) but as long as it’s well explained and makes sense, I’m open to it. As long as an argument isn’t absolutely ridiculous, I can buy it, it just depends on how you as a debater present it.

Basically, as a past debater, I’m open to most if not all arguments, just be sure to explain everything well and impact it. 
  