
  I judge heavily off the flow, and don't really care about speaks, unless you're completely incoherent. The best way to get my ballot is to give me really strong impact calc. Beyond that, I'll vote for just about any argument, except for a few noted exceptions.

K: DO NOT RUN AN ALT-LESS KRITIK. That is my biggest pet peeve. An alt-less Kritik is basically just a disad. As far as general Kritik debating goes, I love the K. That doesn't mean I'm going to automatically vote for you if I hear the word "Kritik", there's nothing worse in all of debate than a shitty K debate where the Neg doesn't know how to run one, and the Aff doesn't know how to combat it. Framework is extremely important to me. You can have a Kritik that absolutely dominates the other team and leaves them in tears, but if you lose on framework, you're likely to lose the round.

General Round Things: If I find that you are using offensive rhetoric I will A) Dock your speaker points severely, and B) Be much more likely to vote you down. Remember that the rhetoric and language you use in round actually does have an effect outside of the round. Debate has incredible capabilities to be a safe space for so many who wouldn't have one otherwise. It was that for me, it was that for many of my friends. Don't be exclusionary in your arguments. I particularly dislike when people use the term "transgenders" (E.g. "Transgenders' rights are protected by the Aff plan" I actually did hear that in round one time.) to refer to trans* people, (This is one that strikes really close to home for me as I have a really good friend who is trans. DO NOT DO THIS.) Similarly, "the gays" "the blacks" "illegals" or any other term that reduces an entire demographic of people to a single facet of identity. The debate sphere needs to be accepting, and structurally violent language threatens that. Also, cross-ex is your time. I don't really listen to it. If there's something in CX that you want to matter in the round, bring it up in your speech or it won't be evaluated.

Also remember that debate should be fun. I enjoy in-round humor.

If you have any specific questions on anything I haven't covered here, ask me in round.
  