
  I debated for Stuyvesant High School for four years and qualified to the TOC my senior year. I taught at NSD Northeast and VBI LA II this past summer. I am currently a first year at Tufts University.

Short Version:
K> util/larp > traditional/stock > theory > dense phil > tricks

Please slow down on tag lines and author names. Speak at 65% of your top speed and work your way up from there. I am very bad at flowing and I will make confused expressions if I miss something. I will say slow, clear, louder, etc. SLOW DOWN FOR PLAN/CP TEXTS, INTERPS, COUNTER INTERPS AND ADVOCACY TEXTS

Extensions need a claim, warrant and impact, unless it is conceded, in which case the warrant doesn't need to be as fleshed out.

Big picture overviews are good. Please do read them.

Defaults:
Truth testing
Reasonability
drop the argument
Perms are a test of competition
My role as a judge is as an educator (I will be v hard to be persuaded otherwise)

Long Version:

K: I ran these most as a debater and think I am best at evaluating these types of debates. Please do overview work explaining what the K does. If I have no idea what the K means by the end of the round, I will not vote on it. Performance debate is fine, just explain solvency of the method well. You do not have to be topical. Don't make the debate an oppression olympics. Read trigger warnings. ENGAGE.

Util/larp: weigh, but you know that already (hopefully). Refrain from too much jargon

Theory: I really REALLY HATE frivolous theory, running theory against stock positions, reading multiple shells against inexperienced debaters (like, you don't need 3, relax.), and reading theory for the sake of reading it. If you are a "theory debater" do not pref me. Theory is a check on abuse. I will vote on RVIs but they need to be won like any other argument.

T: I think T is a fine argument (against Ks and what not), and I find these debates interesting to watch. However, I have always been on one side of these kinds of debates so I may be more difficult to persuade than more experienced judges. I'm not saying don't read T. Just slow down, do big picture overview and explain things very well. I have voted on T in the past and have no problem doing so again in the future. I find that blanket statements like, "Fairness is intrinsic to the nature of debate so it comes before anything else," are far less persuasive than more specific answers like, "Fairness is more important than X because Y."

Philosophy: Similar to theory/T in that I require more explanation and that you go slower, at least the first time I'm hearing the framework. I know what most common LD frameworks say, but I am not very familiar with most analytic philosophy. I have judged K vs. framework debates before and have voted both ways, but like T I was always on one side of these kinds of debates so just do some more work and it'll be swell. 

Tricks: just. no.

Evidence/Disclosure: Don't miscut evidence. I will call for cards and tank speaks if you do. Disclosure is probably good, but I have no hard beliefs on this question. I will evaluate disclosure theory, but not if it is read against stock positions.

Speaks
I evaluate speaks based on strategic choices made in round, funny CXs, RESPECTFUL CXs and slow but effective second speeches. I don't really care if you're the techiest person on the planet if your arguments are shit-- your speaks will similarly be shit.

Most importantly, please do not take yourself too seriously. Be kind to your competitors. Help inexperienced debaters. Don't grill me excessively after round (do ask questions though). Have fun!!!!! If you ever need anything, feel free to reach out for someone to talk to or if you need a snack or something at 917-580-1512. Debate can be a stressful activity if you are not taking precautions so please practice self-care; eat before rounds, drink water and take breaks. Meditate, deep breaths, whatever works for you.

I probably missed some stuff, but if you have questions you can email me at shannon.lee@tufts.edu, fb message me, ask before the round or contact Paul Zhou at pz1337@gmail.com
  