
  Current School: Harvard University
Affiliation: Lexington
Years Debated: 2010-2014
Debated: Policy (4 Years)
Judging Experience: I have experience judging policy and LD rounds for 3+ years.

For this year - I'm not familiar with the topic yet, so acronyms and other topic specific things will need to be articulated more.

Note on Prep Time: Just ask for prep, not specific amounts that's annoying. Just prep.

Theory 
Most things are reasons to reject the argument (except for like Condo). I love a good theory debate. If you attempt to weigh theory versus a T violation, you must explain reasons to prefer one or the other.

Topicality
I think reasonability is a strong argument (#2aandproud). But that being said, you have to address the voting issues.

Kritiks
Fine by me. I'm not the best at understanding these, but if you articulate well, then you're fine.

CPs & DAs
A good, clean strat. Impact calc is always good. Bonus points if you run XO and politics and you don't go to Lex.

Case
Please, please, please label/signpost where you are on case. Especially in the 2AC.

Non-traditional, Race, Identity, etc
Probably not the judge for you. I never looked forward to these affs/negs, and don't understand the intricacies of them. That being said, I have voted for them, greatly respect them, and do have a basic understanding of the arguments as a whole.

Other Items
Flashing - I don't take prep time for flashing, but if you take an absurd amount of time, then the timer starts.

Clipping - If you clip and the other team catches you (via a recording or other method) you will lose and get 0 speaks. I have a zero-tolerance policy on card clipping - the tabroom and your coaches will be notified.

Marking - You must flash/physically mark after your speech the marked evidence. In extreme cases of not knowing where you have marked MANY cards it will result in disregarding the evidence.

Rudeness - C'mon be chill - we're all part of a community. Be fun, be cool, be funny! If you are rude, violent, bully, or insult the other team your speaks will suffer accordingly.

Jokes - For every good joke told in round, you get 2 brownie points. If you tell a bad joke/pun, you lose 1 brownie point.

Swag/WHOA Moments - If you say or do something that demonstrates the massive amount of swag you have (like getting a concession or admission in CX that gets the room to go 'WHOAAAAA') you get 3 brownie points.

Brownie points - If one gains enough brownie points, said points may be exchanged post round for prizes of little to no value.

LD
Really spell out your AC/NC in the rebuttals. As a policy debater I tend to do more weighing on issues and view framework a bit differently. Watch out for other jargen type things that I might not get (I get like Value Critereon and stuff, but blowing through theory is not a good idea).
  