
  Background: I debated all four years in high school and was the debate captain. I loved troll strats to make the point that policy debate became extreme- it's not even a real debate anymore. Yes that's a huge hint. Wink wink. Means I like certain strats. Certain A-Z SPECs, certain "superman" Ks, etc. You still have to debate it right if you want me to vote on it though. Oh and I don't judge all year, so I update the tournament I'm at to clarify which "John Lee" I am.
Speed: I used to understand literally anything as long as you were clear. I don't debate anymore, so I'm getting rusty. I'll call "clear" for you- that means either enunciate or slow down.
Kritiks: I have a pretty high threshold, so don't debate a K you don't understand. It's painful for all of us if you try to throw out a random K just cause you were told to run it. If you're a good K team, you're probably good on this end. You do need to explain how I would end up making real impact in the world by voting for you on K- otherwise, you're just complaining to me. I will never buy "need to meditate" or "your way of thinking is bad" arguments unless you explain to me the step by step process how that makes real difference in the world.
CPs: Don't devolve the debate down to who solves better than the other. For me to vote on a CP comfortably, you need to win net benefit by a clear margin. Otherwise, I'll have to evaluate specifics of your arguments, and since I can't catch every word you're saying, that might become a problem.
Ts: Just make it specific to the aff. Do a line-by-line slowly here cause if you're just speeding through ground, limits, bright line, I'm probably gonna miss something.
Prep Time: I give 10 mins unless both teams want lower, except in break rounds, where it's 8.
Everything else: I'm a pretty lax judge. I just want a good debate. That means anything goes- troll Ks, jokes, tag team in C-X, paper debate, paperless debate, etc. As long as you're making it fair and providing a good debate, I'll let you do pretty much whatever you want, as long as it's legal. I have to say that now after a few rounds were...questionable in legality.

Warning: I dock speaker points if you're an a-hole to anyone in the room, especially your partner, unless it's a part of a funny Kritik.

WANT TO GET HIGHER SPEAKER PTS? DO THESE THINGS FOR ME!
1. Line-by-line. If I don't know what you're answering, I'm gonna flow it somewhere random and probably ignore it when I pick the winner only cause I don't know what to do with it.
2. Make me laugh. If I'm bored, there's a good chance I won't work very hard to flow every point in your speech. I love seeing people grilled btw. As long as they consent. Otherwise, it's just straight up awkward.
3. Be real but nice. I'd rather you be relaxed and debating with a clear mind than worrying about making yourself look good to me. I recognize when you're being fake af.

Speaker Point Breakdown (I avg around 28):
30: Great debate- I adjust my standards based on the caliber of the tournament, so if you're a newbie at a newbie tournament, I will still hand out 30s.
28-29.5: Good debate- nothing too big to complain about.
27-27.5: Decent debate. You dropped something major.
26.5 and lower: You were an ass. Make enough a-hole moves and your 30 can easily become a 23. This is an extracurricular activity with a great community, not a place for you to bully others.
  