
  UC Berkeley Student
La Costa Canyon HS
Debated LD 2009-2013

For Berkeley Tournament: It's been a while since I've judged (about a year), so the speed at which I can keep up with has most likely gone down significantly. I would say you're better off reading at a brisk pace rather than a "spread." I'm not familiar with what authors debaters are reading now or the popular/trendy args. I'm just gonna put 100% into judging your round to make up for these short comings. 

Background
I debated for four years at La Costa Canyon High School where I competed in local and circuit tournaments. My circuit career was short, only about two years, but I managed to break at a couple national tournaments. Though, I wasn't too competitive nationally overall. I ran mostly stock positions, but I am open to any arguments that you run as long as you argue them well.

Paradigm
My understanding of debate has always been that framework, whether that be substantive, critical, or theoretical, comes first followed in priority by any arguments under that framework. In other words I will always look to which framework is won and who won the most offense back to that framework. If you have any specific questions or concerns about this just ask me.

Speed
Can't keep up with much speed anymore. Please make sure to slow down for tags, authors, and theory interpretations as well as anything you want to stand out.

Theory
I don't have any defaults. I am open to RVI's. I have no biases when it comes to specific shells I will vote for whatever. However, I'm a bit less tolerant of what I would consider frivolous theory. I'm not sure how to articulate exactly what that is, it's more of a "I know it when I see it" sort of thing.

Ks
Not really about them. Run them if you have to, but make sure to clearly articulate your argument and explain thoroughly.

Speaks
I tend to give higher speaks. Clarity, namely, will boost your speaks as well as giving a good ballot story. I like to start at 28.5 and then work from there. If you're good and I think you deserve to break you will definitely be awarded more points than that. Don't be an asshole your speaks will suffer.

Feel free to ask me anything else if something is unclear or not addressed above!
  