
  I usually judge Congress, but have judged PF sporadically.

Cards: 
I do not respect an argument that becomes all about “cards.” Example: “Cross apply my Douglas Card across the flow and pick up my Myers Card to eliminate his Smith Card.” That is not debate. If you have an argument then use it, don’t let the ‘card’ speak for you. This doesn’t mean don’t use evidence, it means SAY your argument and keep RESTATING it as needed rather than saying your argument once and then dropping it down to a meaningless card statement. Think of it this way: if you are in school and a teacher tells you something ONCE and then after that continues to refer to it only as “problem A” you’ll never remember it. I’m not going to do your debating for you; if you tell me to apply a card I’m not going to go looking through my flow to figure out which one you wanted.

Impact:
Impact, Impact, Impact! I love debates with unique ideas and statements, but any statement without impact is an opinion. Evidence is a good thing (see card statement above) and must be used. I’ll vote on pretty much anything that is impacted clearly and correctly. With this in mind I won’t drop an argument for you….if you let an argument stand then so will I; even if I know it is wrong.

Speed:
Like I said above, I am a congress judge. I might not be able to understand you if you are talking way too fast

Spreading:
Don’t do it. It may be legal but it is poor sportsmanship and sloppy debating. You will not get picked up based on the argument “my opponent dropped my Contention 5 sub point G.” If you have a strong core case you don’t need to fluff it up with lots of sub points. 

Jargon: 
Don’t like it, please don’t use it. With that in mind I find that Kritiks are rarely well constructed or well argued. Unless you are REALLY good at running Kritiks, don’t use them 

Sportsmanship:
Eye rolling, teeth smacking, heavy sighs, the jerky “What!?!” face with flailing arms…. 
Keep control of your reactions. Don’t yell, swear, or demean your opponents

Cross X: 
DO NOT YELL AT EACH OTHER DURING CROSS! Cross X should be used to clarify a point or further an argument.


99% of the above is taken from Katie Williams paradigm (a national hero she is)
  