
  Hi. My name is Jake Lerner, and I'm a second year student of Political Science and Computer Science at UC Berkeley. I debated four years of national circuit policy debate in high school. I like red wine, long forest-y walks, modern art, and good case debates.

-  jakelerner Feb 8, 2013 Philosophie -  jakelerner Feb 8, 2013

Cleverness, Courtesy, and good Case Debates: I'm not afraid to give you ridiculously high speaks for doing your part to improve debate as an activity.

Racism, Sexism, Homophobia etc. will not be tolerated before, during, or after round. I will probably just quietly knock off a speaker point or ten.

Clipping cards without marking them is cheating. You have to read everything that is underlined or highlighted, or otherwise denote what was read.
Also excessive marking of cards makes for bad debate.

Don't be mean. That means be nice.

Let's be real: realism is soooo 1975.

I do research work on trade flows in East Asia and lots of policy stuff and I enjoy good policy-oriented debates.

I read K's in High School, which means bad critical debating makes me angry but I might actually understand the argument you're making, so that's fun.

Make me chuckle. Points for puns.

If you aren't spending at least a minute on case for every speech, you're probably doing it wrong.

Theory is fine. Lose theory, lose the round. I mean, if it's like a voter and well articulated and such.

Speed is fine in theory, but I been chillin in college for two years and my ears aint what they used to be. If I say clear, clear it up and slow it down.

If I'm not flowing, your arguments aren't going on my flow.

Clash makes for good debates. Seriously. If no one is making arguments interact, I will make them interact for you. You will assuredly not like how I do that.

Argument analysis makes for good debates.If no one is telling me what cards say (and the implications thereof), I will figure out what they are saying for you. You will assuredly not like how I do that.

Emancipate yourself from mental slavery, none but ourselves can free our minds. Man.
  