
  Quick tips:
 
If you don't know me fix it.

I debated for GDS for 4 years and am currently a freshman on the UMICH debate team.

I'm down to hear any argument unless its explicitly shenanigans or offensive, in which case I'm double down.

If you like judge adaptation so much, my fave args are:
Irony
Militarism bad
Interesting race stuff
Foucault
Critical Democracy-ish stuff (giroux, yaknow)
Neoliberalism bad

THERE IS A SUBSTANTIVE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DUMB ARGUMENTS AND ARGUMENTS DEBATED DUMBLY
Mistake them at your expense.

I have a slight aff bias when it comes to negative shenanigans but only slightly, I feel like the neg goes into a lot of debate with a box of bullshit that the aff team treats like a dirty bomb, threat inflation makes you look dumb and the neg look smart. (aff: Call out shenanigans).

 
 Things that get you more points/ make it more likely that I like you:
 
- Be funny- I know people, make fun of them.

- Perform. Performing in debate=/= performance in debate but there are important similarities.

- Swag!- if you don't think your argument makes sense/ don't have confidence in the arg's ability to win then I certainly won't. If your gonna go for objectivism look the opponent in the face and demand they stop stealing your money.

- Do not be a dick
 I will repeat this for clarification
Do not be a dick
Tempers flaring over arguments difference (OK)
Being obnoxious to anyone in the round for reasons beside that (-.5)
If I feel like you've established yourself as the big dick on campus you can expect no more than a 25


 
 BAD ARGUMENTS/ DEAD TO ME ARGUMENTS (Doesn't mean I won't vote on them, just that i find them so dumb as to be laughable):
 
Chance of a link on the K when you explain it like an idiot (aff: NO LINK= 0%)

Descriptions of the aff's implementation presented by the neg (Plan flaw= worse version of this argument)

Terrorism impacts (peanut allergies kill more peepz per year)

1nr Prep (not an arg, just pisses me off)

Being boring- don't do it, I only have so much attention and a computer in front of me. You do the math...
  