
  Debated LD at Kinkaid 2009-2013
Currently a sophomore at Dartmouth

I debated at the 2013 TOC. Run whatever you want/are best at. As long as you defend it well, you can win on literally any type of argument. I debated a lot of policy style stuff in high school so that's all chill but I've found that i really have no predispositions towards anything when judging.

I do think that the debate makes more sense if the aff presents some sort of advocacy, whatever that may be. A lot of the time, especially with LD topics it is unclear what neg (and aff) ground is and I feel like it is usually beneficial for the aff to specify what exactly they are proposing, whether it is the resolution as a whole or whatever. But then again, you can do whatever you want and if you do it better than your opponent, then you win. So always just go with what arguments you are best at.

You get high speaker point if you debate well. What that means is making good arguments and good strategic choices. The more specific you are the better. Regardless of the type of argument you are running, having a well-researched, specific strategy and good explanations of your arguments will generally get you higher speaker points. Rebuttals should not consist of just reading generic pre-written extensions of each card. Apply your arguments to the aff/neg. Why does what you say mean what they say is wrong? Answer that question and you should be good. 

On the other hand, in terms of extensions: If they concede an argument, then you can just say that. You don't have to use up 30 seconds extending each internal link and warrant. You still have to weigh/explain how the argument functions in the round, but if they concede an argument that economic collapse causes war, your extension can just be "economic collapse cases war" and then explain why that means you win i.e. why it o/w or whatever. Obviously if they contest the argument you have to say why you are right which probably entails explaining the warrants/why the warrants in their objection don't apply or are wrong.

Run theory however/whenever you want.

Go as fast as you want. Be clear obviously.

You can email me with any questions at john7lewis at gmail dot com (or obviously ask me before the round).


  