
  Background

I debated at Kapaun Mt. Carmel Catholic High School in Wichita, KS for 4 years, One year at Weber State and now in my second year at Kansas State University. Coach for CK McClatchy.


General Comments


When judging I will be putting as much effort into it as I would if I were actually debating in that round. That being said I expect you to try your hardest in each debate.

I default to an offense/defense paradigm if I am not given another framework for the debate

Prep ends as soon as the flash drive leaves the computer and is given to either me or the opponent. Flashing to your partner does count as prep if you haven’t given it to anyone else yet.

I do ask that you add me to the email chain or give me the flash drive with the evidence you read so it saves time at the end of the round if I call for evidence. (Leybasam@gmail.com) 

I like petty but there is definetly a fine line

I will vote you down for clipping.


2016 Update:
Just a few but not alot. Im finding myself to be more persuaded by Framework than I use to be. Especially on generally large topics. 
I keep a good flow but have a hard time hearing the top levels of speed. Slow down on tags.
I find myself not as deep on policy arguments as I once use to be. Mostly because I only really go for the K anymore and I don't do alot of topic research. 
Aff Comments


Affs should be in the direction of the topic

If you have a different relationship with the topic than the standard policy Aff go right ahead and do what you do best, whether that may be.



T/Theory


I enjoy a good T debate. 

I default to reasonability.

I also find conceding other arguments on the flow to prove abuse a very compelling strategy when going for T/Theory.

Any questions on this section please ask.


DA


Line by Line is essential on every DA you read in front of me.

Sign posting is appreciated and will boost your speaker points.

Impact Framing is everything when it comes to weighing the DA vs. the Aff

I do believe that terminal defense is a thing when it comes to certain DAs, including Ptx. 

I'd prefer if you didn't read a thousand cards. I think well thought of analytics and warrent extention is more persuasive than being a drone.

I don't run politics in college and its been a while since I have kept up on whats going on in congress so you will need to do more work on the uniqueness level to win the DA. 


CP


I love Word PICs, that being said the "the" PIC is vacuous.

You should also have offensive reason as to why the permutation is a bad idea. “Perm links to the Net Benefit” is not an argument in front of me. It needs to be more fleshed out and you should have specific links as to why that is true.


K


You should have a conceptualization of what the alt is and what is done and how it solves. Also you should have links grounded in the Aff (Link of Omissions are rarely something I will vote on)

If you are answering the K I need the permutation to have a net benefit and a defense of the 1AC’s framework.

I have experience with a variety of K’s but don’t assume I know your literature base. Explain your argument.

I generally think debate is a good activity, but I can get behind meta critiques of the activity because it is definitely a violent community

Most of my studies with the K have been in the post modern realm but I have begun to transition to the post colonial portion and some identity based arguments. 


FW


I have started to go for this argument more. These debates can be really nuanced if done so properly. I don't think FW is inherently violent but I do find myself pursuaded by impact turns to FW consitantly. 



Overall just have fun. 


Speaker points start at 28 and go up or down from there usually not lower than a 27.5 unless you done goofed. I do adjust based on divisions
  