
  Affiliation
Stuyvesant High School, 2013
Stuyvesant Speech and Debate Team
Columbia University, Barnard College, 2017
Columbia Parliamentary Debate Society
eyl2125@columbia.edu

Background
I am currently a first-year at Barnard College studying philosophy. I went to debate camp at VBI in 2011 and 2012, and competed 3 years mainly in the northeast LD circuit. I've judged several high school LD rounds. As a member of the Columbia Parliamentary Debate Society, I also help run the Columbia High School Invitational. 

Paradigm
Chances are I will never be as invested in your round as you and your opponent will be, which is why you should make clear to me what matters and what doesn't -- as soon as possible. Weighing is great and you should start doing it early on. You shouldn't be going for everything in the final rebuttal; that will just make for a messy and unenjoyable round. 
If you misquote or misuse philosophy you will be docked speaker points for it. You should understand the philosophy that you're running; if you don't, it shouldn't be in your case. 
CX is binding. If your opponent pulls something in a speech that contradicts what he said in CX, call him out on it. 
Theory-wise, I don't default to either reasonability or competing interps. Please weigh standards, because chances are both of you will be winning some arguments; I need to know which of those arguments matter. I'm cool with RVIs and will evaluate them like any other argument. 
I'm not very familiar with critical/Ks and if you run it you should make it very clear how it should function in my decision calculus. 
I'm generally pretty okay with speed so long as you're clear. If you're going too fast (and that might happen, given that I haven't competed in a while), I will let you know twice in the round. I won't stop flowing if you don't respond, but I will inevitably miss things and that will affect my decision in the round. Please slow down for tags and author notes, and indicate to me when a card or argument ends and a new one begins.
  