
  Affilitation: Henry W. Grady
Please feel free to email me if you have any questions: caffinatedninjasquirrels@gmail.com 

Last Edit: 01-23-15
I’ve debated 3 years LD, both locally and nationally. You can pretty much do whatever you want in the round. I like creativity (My favorite round of all time was Peninsula AT vs. Bronx Science ZR. The negative ran a pre-discurive counterplan of flogging prisoners. It was awesome) and humor. I've read stuff like only evaluate the round through punk music, vote both teams down, consult god, etc. Feel free to read stuff like that. 

I currently attend UGA where there's not really a debate team so I can't say I know too much about this topic in particular. You're probably pretty safe though, I had a similar topic at camp a few years back. I would like to think I know my philosophy enough to follow along. Hold no punches


I evaluate the impact debate under the winning frame so don’t try to outweigh on extinction under a deontology frame and stuff. FRAMEWORK IS KEY. It’s super important to me that you tell me EXACTLY what to write as my Reason for Decision. Literally say "Tiger, here's what you write on the ballot-...". I don’t profess to be great at judging so you need to explain precisely why I vote you up. This means I want to see very clear clash because if I don’t, then I may vote incorrectly. 

I am familiar with critical lit so you can read whatever K’s you want. I’m a kritkal debater so as a disclaimer, “Oh this is LD no Ks” won’t cut it for me, unless you can further justify it. I don’t really understand crazy psychoanalytic K stuff like DnG, but if you explain it, or anything for that matter, well, it can justify a ballot. You can probably win "death good" in front of me. 

The same goes for counter-plans and other "non-traditional" negs. The good ole "this is LD" doesn't cut it for me as a legitimate response, unless you can specifically justify why the discursive act of going non-traditional is bad for some specific reason. 

Unless you give me a specific pre-fiat arg, I will assume that you guys aren’t held responsible for the post-fiat implications of the winning advocacy. If you are advocating that environmental protection is good, I’m not going to vote you down for having a laptop or something. However, I reserve the right to vote anyone down on sexist, racist, homophobic, or otherwise offense language, or if you falsify/make up evidence. Also, you will get 20 speaks. Other wise, if you can hold your own, you’ll probably get 27 or 28, if you blow me away with super clever args, 29-30. 

Speed is fine, but I won't pretend to be the greatest at it. On a scale of 1-10, 1 being a three-old on barbiturates and 10 being the like you read 30 pages in the 1ac, I prefer like a 7-8. Like so: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5Ll4v-Iz90
I’ll yell clear or slow if I need to, but I'll do my best to flow. I reserve the rights to call whatever cards I want to. If you don’t signpost, I’ll flow it where I think it best goes on the flow (so it’s your fault if it’s flowed in the wrong place). I encourage you to go fast enough to keep my interest. Let's be honest, 50 minutes of debate is a long time, so keep it interesting. Be funny, be polite, keep it interesting. You will be rewarded with speaks.If you haven't guessed by now, I keep a very rigorous flow... Also, if you see me typing on my laptop, or playing Candy Crush, or whatever, don't worry. I promise I'm paying attention. I'll disclose and give as detailed an RFD as time permits.

Theory
I default to reasonability to judge theory. Try to avoid theory if you can, just because it's hard to judge and it might not go your favor, but I definitely understand its necessity. If there is some crazy abuse going on, definitely go for theory, but I will always prefer on-case responses. If the NC strategy is like 6 off and all of those are theory vios, I will not be happy voting for you. I do like pre-fiat theory though, I think it's fun to see stuff like that. 

T

Give me reasons why your definition is preferable...

TL;DR- Do whatever you want, don't suck. 
  