
  I am a traditional LD judge for Elk Lake High School. I debated from 7th-12th grade in high school (I graduated in 2000), almost all of it LD, and have been judging sporadically ever since. The 2010-2011 school year is my 17th of involvement in Forensics.

Case Analysis

1) Value, criteria, resolution. Debaters need to base their arguments on a value that is supported by a measurable criterion. The value and criterion must be clearly defined and supported by arguments. All arguments in the case must link back to the value, criterion, and resolution. Failure to do so is a flaw in the case and will be treated accordingly. Speaking of resolutions, LD is a debate over a given resolution with two sides. So, each debater should be ultimately judged by their ability to convince me, the judge, that I should support your view of the resolution. I will vote against any so-called LD "strategies" that try to weasel around this fact, so no theory arguments, no balance negatives, etc.

2) Philosophy. Strong philosophical links are a requirement for good case analysis. After all, you cannot establish links between value, criterion, and resolution without making philosophical claims. Efficacy arguments or bold assertions are not enough.

3) Structure. There should be a clearly defined case structure on both sides. In order to judge the debate I need to follow the debate. If I cannot follow you because of a lack of structure, that will count heavily against you.

Rebuttals

1) Organization, coverage, voting. Rebuttals should be clear and organized. Don't jump all over the flow, but go over the flow in some reasonable order. You must show me why I should accept what you say, so do not just say that an argument applies but show it instead. Failure to cover an argument is bad, but I'm only going to give that argument to your opponent if he or she brings it up and explains why it works and is important. The end of NR and all of 2AR should cover voting issues in the round.

Delivery

1) Communication, not speed. LD, like all of Forensics, is a communication event at heart. Speed is not a form of communication, but rather a communication flaw that indicates one of the following bad things: an inability to control your nerves, an inability to properly manage speaking time, or purposely attempting to obfuscate the real issues with a mountain of minor issues. You do not want me, the judge, to think that you are doing any of these things in an event where I am judging you on your ability to communicate. Therefore, I do not accept speed of any kind in the round. I need to be able to flow the round accurately, and I expect that the average person should be able to come into the round and understand what you are talking about to give you an idea of a reasonable speed. If I cannot flow an argument, I will not give it to you. Remember, I am the one that you have to convince to win the debate, so if I can't understand you, then I can't vote for you.

2) Professionalism. I expect debaters to behave in a professional and civil manner in the round. This means appropriate attire, no inappropriate comments, no disrupting your opponent's speeches, no drinking during speeches, standing up straight, both debaters standing during CX, making eye contact with the judge, and generally being civil to both their opponent and the judge.

Other Notes

1) Timers and timing. Timing is my job as a judge. My time is the official time in the debate. You do not need a timer because I will give time signals and you should be making eye contact with me anyway. If you really want to use one even though it is a completely unnecessary distraction that may hurt you in the round if you don't use it right, then you may so long as it does not make distracting noises, you do not ever time your opponent, and you remember that my time is the official time no matter what you or your timer says. Also, I begin timing when you start your speech or ask your first CX question. Asking if the judge and/or opponent are ready before starting will not start your time. Doing something irrelevant or purposely delaying will start your time. Previewing and signposting are a part of your speech, so time starts when you give them. You don't get any extra time to preview and signpost.
  