
   I debated LD for three years at Hillsborough High School on both the local and national circuits. I currently attend Emory University. 

Speed: I can flow pretty quickly, although speeding is not PREFERRED. 
I take notes heavily, and my actively flowing will be indicative of whether I can understand you or not. If I put my pen down, slow your pace or speak more clearly/loudly, whichever the case may be. In extreme circumstances, I will yell "CLEAR". The point of the debate for you is to clearly articulate your arguments to the judge, so remember that you should focus on thoroughly presenting your reasons rather than trying to "word-vomit" everything you have within the time you're given. 

Critical Arguments/Ks: I'm not familiar with critical/K literature, so make sure you explain your argument clearly to me. As with any other judge, I'm always up for just hearing good arguments.

Theory: Not too big of a fan of theory but it's fine to use if you can clearly and effectively show abuse on the opposing side.

Speaker Points: Speaker points are based on speaking clarity, eye contact, argument clarity, strategy sophistication, use of roadmaps, respect for the opponent and judge, general debate quality (how well you can address the style and format of your opponent's case), and question/responses in CX.

Flex Prep/Asking for Cases: No. I have been in too many rounds where an opponent picks out a single word or phrase of a case and then completely mishandles the whole argument. In my experience, it has lead to cheap responses. I won't ask for cases for clarification - I will judge based on what I can understand from the speaker. Debate hones both your oral communication as well as auditory skills... use your allotted time wisely.


GIVE ME ROADMAPS. I won't be judging on anything without warrants. Always relate your arguments back to your, or the round's, standard. GIVE IMPACTS! I like crystallization and a comparative analysis at the end of the round - interact with your opponent's case! Above all else, I just like to hear good, well structured, and logical arguments.
  