
  Abraham Lincoln
"Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. 
Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation, so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.
But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate...we can not consecrate...we can not hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom—and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth."~Me

Ahem, now that we have gotten that out of the way....

I am the epitome of Lincoln-Douglas debate, having started the activity during the presidential elections of 1860.

The activity was obviously created in my spitting image, and so I will evaluate you as follows:
Dress: You must have on a gigantic hat, a beard (if you can't grow one, glue one on, it'll come off in the shower, or with some mild acid), and a suit from the 1800's. Or, you can be dressed as a flaming Democrat whom I will not mention *cough* Douglas *cough*.
Oratorical Capabilities: If you spread, I will throw Bibles at you until your face is bloody.
Position: I always vote for the person against slavery.

There you have it, the way to winning a ballot from your maker.
  