
  April Linder
Pennsbury High School ‘09
Goucher College ‘13
Judge Locally in Baltimore area for Loyola Blakefield - should probably be marked as a strike here thusly 

I debated four years at Pennsbury (locally and nationally). I’m fine with speed for the most part. If you are going fast just to outspread your opponent, rethink your strategy. I think that is silly and will take note of it. Clarity is more important to me. If it isn’t on my flow, it doesn’t exist in round. Avoid using phrases like “pull the trigger” and “flow me up” because they just make you sound stupid and waste your time. Any questions? Just ask nicely.

Kritiks: I come from an area that is not very “K-friendly.” I don’t really like them and didn’t run them in high school. I won’t tell you to not run them, but I will tell you winning my ballot on it will be difficult. But if that is your strategy, that is your strategy. Any big kritiky words that you use need to be explained to me as if I am your younger brother or sister. Alternatives need to actually exist and be explained throughout round. Tell me how the K functions in round and what you would like me to do with it. 

Counterplans/DAs: I like good CP debates. Perms do not just solve because you say they do. Give me solid reasons why I should prefer the CP and NB vs. case (or perm). Additionally, perms don’t link to the NB unless you give solid reasons why they do. That analytic is not enough. Comparative debating is good with CPs and DAs. (solvency debates, impact calc). 

Topicality: I really like T debates. Especially strategic ones that aren’t just read as a “time suck.” Don’t waste my time with ASPEC unless you are seriously thinking about going for it at the end of round. I will listen to the Reasonability/Competing Interpretations debate, but ultimately, I think T is about competing interpretations. I won’t default this way if the reasonability debate is stronger, but if no paradigm is presented, that is how I will evaluate T. 

Theory: I like good, impacted theory debates. Theory should be treated like Topicality..interpretations/counter-intrps, line by line, and all. If you plan on going for it at the end of the round, be sure that you have spent a decent amount of time on it in previous speeches. My personal beliefs about what is better/more fair for certain theory arguments will not influence my decision. I vote based on what is presented in round. 

Performance/Non-traditional debate: I will probably write on the ballot that you should go do speech. I think debate is an event with structured rules that follow lines of argumentation. Save dance offs and poetry slams for your free time. I might even attend.
  