
  Hi I’m Vivian! I debated for 4 years at the Kinkaid School (Houston, TX) on the national and local circuit for LD and I now attend Columbia University.
Email: vivianliu726@gmail.com
I’d love to be included on an email chain if possible, just in case of evidence calling. If I’m too terrifying for some reason, don’t worry about it.

Speed: It’s been a few hot months since I’ve heard anyone talk above conversational speed, so although speed is fine, please slow down on tags + authors + analytics + interpretations, and don’t sacrifice clarity for more words. I’ll call “clear” and “slow.” Signposting helps.

Extensions: Be sure to weigh and impact back your arguments, especially when you’re extending. Although a conceded argument is a conceded argument, it doesn’t impact the round unless you extend the argument yourself. Generally, I have a lower threshold for extensions in the 1AR, but no matter which speech, an extension must have the author, claim, a summary of the warrant, and WEIGHING. Tell me how I should adjudicate the round and why your arguments matter, I won’t do that work for you.

Policy Arguments: I’ll be honest, as a debater in high school, I always preferred policy arguments so I’d probably be the most comfortable listening to arguments of that nature (plans, counterplans, disads, etc.) That being said, I’m not going to vote on incomplete arguments nor am I going to enjoy your policy backfiles/Bostrom being thrown around.

Ks: I’m open to hearing pretty much anything that isn’t morally reprehensible. I’m less familiar with super phil-heavy Ks, so if you’re reading any of those, be sure to slow down and explain everything to me as if I were a child. If your opponent can’t figure out what your K is, chances are, neither can I. I do enjoy decent kritiks though, so don’t be deterred!

Theory: I’m also less familiar with theory that isn’t topicality, so proceed with caution. On theory, I default to competing interpretations and no RVIs. If the theory debate is super frivolous, I’ll probably hate the round and subconsciously give everyone lower speaks, but if you’re fine with that then go ahead I guess. If it’s disclosure theory, provide screenshots.

Tricks: I really was not a tricks debater, and I highly doubt I’ll like tricks anymore now. I really wouldn’t recommend this route in front of me. Even tricks like floating PICs mess with me, so beware.

Speaks: I average between 27-29, and I’ll allocate speaks based on overall strategy, crystallization, weighing, and overall presentation (!!)

TL;DR – Weigh, policy arguments are what I’m best at adjudicating, kritiks are usually a-ok, frivolous theory and tricks are annoying. Please don’t go too fast especially on important tags/interps, and be a nice person!


I hope y’all have fun and don’t stress too much!
  