
  Riley Lochner
La Costa Canyon High School
University of Puget Sound

I debated for four years in HS (went to TOC and stuff) and coached a little for my former high school and Holy Names Academy. I debated at one tournament in college my sophomore year, but still try to stay involved in HS debate.

I think judge philosophies aren't too helpful because most teams are going to read the arguments that they are best at, so I'll make this short.

1. There are no arguments I won't listen to, that isn't to say that there aren't some arguments that I think are just bad, but read the arguments you're best at. I firmly believe that the debate round is for the debaters to win or lose based on the arguments they make during the round and I will put aside reasons I think an argument is stupid and vote solely on what has been said.

2. I prefer to vote for the quality of the debate over the quality of the evidence. I will only read cards if the debate hinges on it and I won't read for warrants or claims not explained in the speeches.

3. Topicality: My default is competing interpretations, but I am persuaded by reasonability, especially if there is a lot of aff lit or the case has been run all year. To win this you must explain how this affects the way I should evaluate the T debate. That being said I don't have problems voting on T as long as there is a clear impact and a reason to prefer your interp.

4. Theory: Not my favorite debate to listen to, but sometimes it is necessary. To win this you need to slow down and take time to adapt your blocks to what's happening in the round and impact it. I am neutral to most theory arguments, but I think floating PICs are probably bad.

5. Framing: Tell me how I should be evaluating sections of the debate or competing claims

6. Break it down: Explain to me why your argument outweighs or comes first and be sure to explain why it is specifically better than the other teams.

7. Don't be an asshole. There is a fine line between being competitive and being a jerk. If you are debating a team not on your level, be nice or I'll kill your speaks.
  