
  Chattahoochee `13
Emory `17

I'm usually able to convince myself what is going on - most things that are read in round I can get.

Debate Stylistically
- Prettier and wittier debating comes before ballin' evidence. You're supposed to convince me orally - if not you should just stay home and write research papers with all the cool evidence you have.
- Make my job easy and keep the debate neat and organized.
- Connect. Connect. Connect. In highschool, after almost every rebuttal redo I gave my coach (Abelkop) always told me to look up at the judge and slow down a bit at a crucial rebuttal moment. I'm not saying stare at me for the entire speech - probably would creep me out - but I suggest you utilize this as well.

Actual Debate Leanings
- Presumption flows neg. If there's a CP it's aff until told otherwise.
- Write out my ballot - I should be able to cite the 2NR/2AR defining moment that made me give one team the W and the other the L

Theory
Theory generally begs the question of conditionality - PICs can be bad but that in and of itself is probably a reason to reject the argument not the team (unless debated otherwise)

DA's
Yes.

T
I think I get it and grasp most of its intricacies. Again compare VIEWS of the topic and not just random buzzwords

CPS
When I was a 2N I went for a the process counterclaim and the politics SAID at least 70 percent of the time.
That being said you still should prove the counterplan is germane to the topic - as I've had more experience with debate I've become aff leaning on questions of counterplan legitimacy (I.e. the state's counterplan is probably a bad thing)

Ks
I've seen a lot of extremely good and techy k debates (I can thank Viveth for that) so I can usually figure out what is going on. Apply the K to the aff. My favorite K debate is when a team can embed really smart case arguments/impact defense arguments on the kritik and explain why that means the aff can't solve/why only the alt can solve.
Floating piks can be okay but I'm likely to lean aff the more vague the neg is about the pik - for example if a negative specified a part of the aff that was problematic and explained why not doing that part of the aff but doing the rest is still a good thing is a great way for alternatives to go down. Hiding the pik on the 8th subpoint of framework is not a good way for alternatives to go down. 

Speaker Points
You'll get what I think you deserve - points generally range from 28 - 28.8. 

Otherwise I'm pretty tab - have fun yo
  