
  West, Megan (Formerly Loden)
Director of Forensics at Cypress Bay High School (Weston, FL) since 2010

Experience
I was an LD debater on the Texas and national circuit for four years in high school (2000-2004), and a parli debater for four years in college (2004-2008). While debating in college I attended the NPDA, earning a top speaker award in 2005. I previously coached the college team at Cal State Long Beach (2008-2010). This is my fourth year serving as the DOF at Cypress Bay High School in Weston, FL where I coach all events, but am desperately trying to revive the South Florida policy scene.

General Paradigm
My "old school" LD training combined with my parli success during my undergraduate career (and my now marriage to a policy debater) has left me eagerly learning all of the intricacies of technical debate. I am open to whatever kind of position you would like to run, but clarity and weighing is essential in flushing-out arguments and my decision-making process. That being said, I do appreciate when debaters explain complex theory arguments. As a communication scholar, I obviously grasp and enjoy K debate...but, I also appreciate additional explanations and clarity. Just make sure you tell my WHY YOU WIN THE ROUND.

Speed/Delivery
I think speed has a place in debate, and I can follow/flow teams at almost any delivery rate they choose. That being said, I am much happier with a mid-speed round than a super fast round where I miss a few things. If I am having trouble, my non-verbals will probably tell you. I also think persuasiveness, narratives, and vocal emphasis are always welcome elements. Oh, and you obviously don't need to stand-up (or sit-down/handstand) and look a certain way; I love comfort about as much as I love debate.

Speaker Points
I think that speaker points are unnecessarily arbitrary; I also know that giving every debater in a round 30s skews results. As such, I use speaker points as a rank. If you are the best debater in the round, you will get 30 points, second best, 29.5 points, third, 29, and worst, 28.5. I will only give you below a 28.5 in a round if I am offended about an argument or action during the round.

Technology
The transition to paperless debate has been a stressful one for me to watch. I hate that debaters rarely flow 1ACs and flash files as a substitute for answering difficult questions. That being said, I do understand the cost, convenience, and even educational benefits of technology in a debate round. My preference is just that (a) flashing, etc. happens as quickly as possible, and most importantly, (b) you remember that I am not looking at the same materials.

Oh, and have fun. Isn't that why we all do this?
  