
   Quick note about me: I debated for  four years in  the Northeast and nationally for Lexington High School.  I went to the TOC twice and cleared at it my senior year. This is my first year judging. I ran and went for a fairly wide variety of arguments, so most anything is fine. I think everyone has preferences but I’ll try as hard as I can to listen to whatever you want to say.

Topicality- T debates are fine but they should almost always be slower. They aren’t my favorite debates most of the time, but if you have something specific (not substantially is without material qualifications) and explain and impact it well topicality is a good argument.

Theory- I lean neg on most theory questions. I’ll try to vote for who’s winning the theory debate but I think that PICS are good, conditionality is good, and agent counterplans are good. Consult counterplans and delay counterplans are probably bad. I have a really hard time voting for theory that isn’t well explained as a reason to reject the team, not just the argument or in the case of conditionality sticking the team with the counterplan.

Kritiks- I ran them a lot my senior year, and I really like kritik arguments. At the same time I think you have to explain them a lot and  tailor them to the aff you’re debating. Extrapolation about how your story applies to the case and specific evidence go a long way towards making your kritik more credible and making you look better. Affirmatives should have responses specific to the kritik not just fiat good, and these responses need to be consistent with the aff- not realism good when the aff isn’t realist.

K affs- they should be specific to the topic. Other than that I’m fine with critical affs. Just make sure you know what you’re talking about and explain things like  the role of the ballot, how your aff interacts with the other teams disads, counterplans, etc.
Counterplans- Are good. Specific counterplans are better, but you don’t always have one. I don’t like obviously stupid counterplans like Cheto Veto or Con Con but that doesn’t mean I won’t vote for them.

Generally- Have fun. Debate should be fun. Debaters should be nice to each other. Explaining evidence, weighing impacts, and making smart arguments are important. Le t me know if you have any other questions.
  