
  I debated LD for Evanston Township High School from 2006-2009 locally, and a little bit nationally. I'm currently a judge for Thomas Jefferson High School (VA).
1. I am open to any style of argumentation (including a traditional case structure,CPs, Kritiks, Theory, A Priori etc) that you choose to use and will not reject any arguments on face (even ones that I find offensive). I don't prefer one kind of argument over another, just do not be blippy.
2. Speed is fine- Its probably not in your best interest to blaze through complex philosophy b/c I have to understand your argument to vote off of it, but generally, speed is cool.
3. Do not be a jerk. I hate it when people are rude. That doesn't mean that you can't be assertive in C-X, but please don't hit, or yell at your opponent or refuse to answer C-X questions.
4. The most important thing that you will do in the round for me is to explain how I should decide the round. This can be a value criterion, burden or whatever, as long as it is justified. I expect you to clearly define the decision calculus for me and explain to me why I look to this standard and how I weigh arguments back to it. In your later speeches, I want you to tell me what layer of argumentation I am looking towards first and why. Generally, you won't be winning every single argument in the round, so you should weigh arguments that you are winning against your opponents(even if...) and explain to me why winning the arguments you are winning wins you the round. Don't just read the taglines/impacts- Tell me why the arguments matter in evaluating the round. In other words, do as much of the ballot work for me as possible in your final speech.
5. Theory: When evaluating theory, my default is to reject the abusive position/framework and not vote directly off of the theory. If you want me to vote off of theory directly, explain to me why giving you the ballot is the only way to rectify the abuse in the round.
6. Please extend warrants! "He/she dropped this" or "extend (insert tagline here)" are not good extensions and I will give significantly less weight to arguments "extended" in this way.
7. Where do I vote? I will vote off of any argument that is impacted back into the standard in the round as long as you are explaining why I should vote off of it (See # 4)
8. Speaks: I try to average around 27.5, but that obviously varies based upon the quality of the tournament. If you do #4 well, your points should be solid.
  