
  Spreading: Is okay with me though I expect if you are spreading you are doing so because you are good at spreading, meaning you are clear and articulate. If it gets sloppy I will just raise my hand and hopefully you or your partner takes notice. 
 
Eye contact: Eye contact is important. I feel that debate should be preparing you to be a confident debater and speaker in the world. If you are too busy reading and not interacting with your audience I will not be inclined to give you high speaker points.
 
Respect: I think being respectful is very important. This means treating your partner and opponents with respect and care. This does not mean that I am against being confident or assertive, but done with respect. 
 
Cross-applying: When you are extending or cross applying evidence from other speeches or other flows I expect that you will tell me the author, tag line, and explain to me clearly why you are cross-applying or extending. Do not do this and I will not flow it. 
 
Time: I expect you to use all of your time. If you sit down before your time is up I do not read that as confident and prepared-the opposite actually. If you still have time in both speeches or cross-ex I expect you to give me an overview, a line by line comparison of arguments, or add more questions. 
 
Cross-ex: I do not flow it. Bring it into the speeches if it matters. If you want high speaker points you will stick to creating and asking only questions in cross-ex. People who use cross-ex to make statements are more unskilled in my book.
 
Violations: Any violations you see or believe you see must be brought to my attention. I may notice them, but if you do not, I will let it fly. It is your job to be in command of the debate and of any violations that may be occurring. 
 
K: Are fine to run, but you better understand your K and be able to articulate it clearly to me.
 
Theory: I enjoy and if you use it make sure you understand and can articulate it. 
 
I have been Judging for 1.5 years. Mostly in novice and jv. I have debated a few varsity debates. I feel very comfortable with flowing. I provide a lot of feed back and will only reveal decisions and speaker points if you are taking notes on the feed back I am sharing. 
  