
  I debated for four years at Wylie High School (currently a student at UT Austin) in Lincoln Douglas and Policy on several different circuits, so whatever style you debate in is alright, though I tend to prefer faster and more intense rounds with a lot of clash.

Short version: I consider myself straight tab with a tendency to vote on whatever the debaters emphasize as the most important with a default to policymaking if necessary (and stock issues if it really comes to that). I’ll vote on essentially anything except offensive/morally unacceptable case turns (i.e. racism good, genocide good, etc.), and I have a high threshold on T and Theory. 
Long version:
General: I won’t make arguments for you, have clear extensions with warrants, don’t just shout authors at me and expect me to remember exactly what they said. I’ll vote on pretty much anything as long as it’s well-warranted, but I’ll default policy-maker if needed. It’s okay to be somewhat aggressive but don’t be openly rude (that’s not helping anyone within the debate or out). 
Speed: Speed’s not an issue. I’ll stop flowing if you’re not clear.
Prompting/Open CX: Depends on the circuit since they all have different rules. UIL: No prompting, no open CX; not my rule, it’s theirs, so if you prompt, I’ll have no choice but to give you a drop. NFL/NSDA: at the discretion of the teams and/or other judges (in the case of a panel). TFA/TOC: go for it; if one team is uncomfortable with it that’s at your discretion, you do what you want in terms of prompting; don’t try to make it a rules/voting issue because it’s legal and if you go for it you will not win. Other circuits: I probably will be more lenient in unclear settings, so if the rules are unclear, I'll treat prompting as acceptable. 
Rules/Violations: In the case of accusations rule-breaking such as use of cell phones/internet or card-clipping, the round will be stopped and the tournament director will be contacted, so don’t go stopping a round on a false alarm or worse trying to make rules a debate argument; this is above that so take it seriously.
T/Theory: Like I said, I have a high threshold. For T, don’t run a generic T as a time suck; it wastes time on both side and drains the quality of the debate, and I will know what you are doing and I will not like it). Running theory is fine but I likely won’t vote on it unless it is the focus of the last speech, so unless you plan on going all in on theory in the 2AR, it’s better not to waste your time.
Framework: Framework debate is fine by me (and sometimes necessary to a well-organized round); it’s not a voting issue itself, but allows a lens as to what the voting issues are, so don’t go completely in on framework in your last rebuttal, but rather use it to frame your arguments as the most important in round. Remember, framework alone will not win you a debate.
Case arguments: In a policy round, case is essential on both sides, so make sure you spend enough time developing your case in the 1AC, attacking it in the 1NC, and making extensions. Obviously you don’t have to spend a majority of your time on case, but make sure it’s addressed since it is the reason for all of the arguments made in the round.
Disadvantages: DAs are usually necessary (especially in a policy-oriented round), so generic DAs are fine as long as they’re unique and you have a good link. Also, don’t just run a bunch of DAs at the beginning of the round and go for all of them; a few well-developed arguments is way better than not narrowing down enough for the rebuttals.
Counterplans: CPs are fine (condo, dispo, any status is okay). Make sure you have a clear CP plan text; if not, it’s not a CP and just a fancy and terrible case argument that will not win you a round. I don’t have a preference on whether or not they’re topical, but make sure they’re competitive (but if it’s not it’ll usually be taken care of in the perm debate). 
Kritiks/K affs: Ks are find and I love K debate, so feel free to run whatever (as long as you have warrants). Discourse/Language Ks are fine if there’s a link, but I prefer you run ones that have an active effect (i.e. Gendered Language, Ableism, Race, etc.) rather than spending your 2NR on a grammar K about the word “the” in the resolution. Philosophy Ks are fine and encouraged, but make sure you know how to run them, and be prepared for a framework debate (it might be good to run a K framework shell in the 1NC on top of the K proper). 
Perf Cons/Multi-Worlds: While I’m fine with perf cons and multi worlds, avoid going for multiple contradictory arguments in the 2NR (for perf cons you shouldn’t be doing this anyway), or I’ll err aff on contradictory arguments. Also, don’t cross-apply arguments across contradictory arguments; it makes no sense and is heavily abusive. 
Any other questions can be clarified in-round, or you can always email me at Evan.Lope13@gmail.com.
Happy Debating!

Post-Addition: Extemp and Congress
Even though extemp is a purely speech event and congress is a mix of a speech and debate event, but my philosophy will likely be the same for both: content and speaking skills are weighed equally for me in these events. In extemp, good analysis of the topic through REAL sources is just as important and presenting this analysis in a sophisticated and relaxed manner; in congress, clash between speeches and addressing fellow representatives/senators is important to keep the debate fresh, as well as presenting your analysis in a proper fashion. Any other questions can be directed to me at Evan.Lope13@gmail.com.
  