
  I debated for Walt Whitman for 4 years, all of which were in LD. I debated locally for 1 year and on the circuit for 3. I generally was a framework and theory debater during my career, but towards the end of my senior year I became interested in critical positions.

First off, I have not debated or heard spreading in quite some time. This doesn't mean don't spread, but if you could start off at maybe 75-80% and gradually get up to top speed, I'd appreciate that greatly. I will call slow or clear as much as I need, and I won't punish you at all unless it seems like you are intentionally not trying to help me out in any way.

I don't have any preferences about what you run in front of me. Do whatever suits your debate style best or whatever you honestly want to do. I'm going to be as tab as possible. Also, entertaining rounds = high speaks. Theory clusterfucks = meh speaks.

This being said, there are things you can do to make my decision easier and likely in your favor. Please slow down on taglines and author names. I don't care too much if you just blaze through the card as long as it's marginally comprehensible, and as long as I have a general idea as to what you're spurting out, I'm chill with it.
Also, good weighing is definitely going to help you out. I don't want to have two contradicting pieces of evidence and have to decide a winner with no guidance as to which I should prefer. If you weigh, you're going to get high speaks. This being said, you don't need to repeat yourself like 5 times. That's going to put me to sleep and I won't be too happy.

If you have any more questions regarding paradigmatic stances to positions you may be running, just ask me. But when in doubt, just go for it.

I was always screwed by speaks in high school, so for now I think I'm going give good speaks. Best way to get good speaks is to be able to explain your case coherently, doing good weighing, and giving me a very easy way to vote for you. Also if you're funny I will reward that. And not to be incredibly cliche, but if you're not funny then please please don't try.

Additional things to get you speaks:
Do both cx'es in a Russian or Indian accent (if this becomes annoying for you or your opponent theres no punishment for stopping)Edit: Please don't actually do this it is in fact very distracting. Go figure.Scream "I am the captain now" at some point in your speech and don't make it seem randomSay 'tomasi swag' at least 4 times in roundConvince me that you're a total badassMake me forget about my extreme sleep deprivation by making the round entertaining for me to judge
  