
  I don't really keep this updated anymore, be sure to check my paradigm on Tabroom for the most up to date paradigm 


My name is Tristan Loveless, I debated for four years at Skiatook High School in East Oklahoma. I debated teams like Jenks and Tulsa Union, so if you’ve heard of them they were my districts competition. I debated 200-300 rounds over my four years between tournaments and camps. I attended Georgetown and Northwestern for camps so I’ve heard a nice variety of ideas.
Simply put I’ll evaluate everything.

Affirmative Case- A traditional policy affirmative should have plan text and follow the topic. I like impacts, make sure you actually have internal links and answer the negative. If it’s a traditional policy aff I can follow it.

Kritikal Aff- Defend something. I’m cool if you defend something super small, but defend something. Try to be related to the topic in some way please. I prolly haven’t read your philosophy so make it clear, but that doesn’t mean I don’t understand K’s. I personally ran Kritikal Affirmatives my Junior and Senior year, so I’m pretty cool with this

DA- Link to the affirmative, be unique, have an impact. Plain and simple, I’m cool with whatever

CP- If you want me to evaluate a shift in presumption, tell me to. I know how presumption shifts, but I’m not gonna hold anyone to only the CP or only the Perm unless you tell me why. On the theory debate Impact it out. The negative should have a specific solvency advocate. I don’t really lean anywhere on theory so If you go for theory impact it out

Theory/T- Impact the voters, tell me what the T/Theory Interp provides us in the real world. T “The” or T “its” aren’t super compelling arguments, and they are less so if you don’t give me voter analysis. Education isn’t an Impact, Advocacy Skills and Decision making are.

Kritiks- Love them. Won many rounds on them. I ran cap k. Turn the aff case, solve it if you can. Attack them on every level. I vote neg if the aff drops epistemology, ontology, or similar framing arg on the K. Be sure these are answered.
Speed is cool, be clear. I like Impact Analysis. If you aren’t analyzing the impacts in the rebuttals then you force me to give you low speaks and I’m gonna have to stare at the flow and determine who I’m gonna vote for that way. Be creative.

Feel free to ask me questions before the round
  