
  Updated 12/29/2013
  
 I am a communications judge.
 It is essential that you read this entire paradigm.
 I prefer debates where there are a smaller number of well developed arguments as opposed to debates with 11 off. It means develop your arguments, and make the block small and deep, In general the team with the better explained, better developed arguments will win the debate.
 I prefer to view the debate as a policy maker.
 I want to hear deeper arguments rather than many shallow points. I want to hear the arguments behind the evidence (policy) and see clash between the two sides.
 I expect good impact calculus: links on critiques and an alternative; and evidence or the lack thereof, is very important.
 I am okay with Framework and Theory arguments as long as they are done well and not just thrown in as part of a "shotgun and Drop" strategy.
 I am accepting of some educational argument and Kritik but it has to be incorporated into the impact and advantage arguments. If you run a K or a "Temple of Debate" argument that can be used on either aff or neg without additional components of argumentation, I will find for your opponents.
 Please don't base your reason for a win on the dates of the evidence.
 Finally, keep it civil. If I detect poor sportsmanship or a bad attitude your speaker points and comment sheets will reflect my perception.
 I will listen to Uniqueness, Inherency, Disads and CPs. Just remember that you lose the preference when you run the CP.
 Extinction theory really doesn't carry much weight with me unless you can link it to the resolution. If your opponent goes that way and you can break the link, you will win that point with me.
 Convince me to see it your way. Better yet, explain to me why your opponents plan doesn't warrant the win AND why your way is better.
 Evidence is important but please don't make your whole case about recency. If your plan isn't posted I may ask for cards at the end of the debate. If it is posted I generally ask for cards from the 2AC and any cards that the neg uses to really try and make a case. Not a fan of card stacking. Cite and move on to what the evidence does to support the argument.
 Have fun. Learn Something and Do Your Best.
 I generally don't go into too much detail in disclosure but will address strengths and weakness in the case if asked. What you think you said and what I hear may be two completely different things and I have the ballot.
 My favorite soft drink is Diet Mountain Dew. Mention my favorite drink before the round and I'll know that you read my paradigm. If both sides mention the soft drink I'll be most pleased.

  