
  Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering ‘18
Conflicts: Rancho Bernardo High School
Last updated: 1/12/2015

Background:
Hi, I’m William – I’m currently a freshman at Olin College and I debated on the LD circuit for 2 years for Rancho Bernardo High School. I didn’t have much in the way of professional coaching, so please keep that in mind.

Defaults (you can persuade me otherwise):
- RVIs good
- Drop the argument
- Competing interps
- No presumption

How you win:
The debater that has the most offense linking back to the winning framework wins my ballot. Please make this clear during crystallization – you will make me VERY happy if you do. If you can’t tell me why you win, you don’t. I should be doing little to no work for you. My function as a judge is to evaluate arguments, not make them for you. As I said during a round I judged before: WEIGH DAMMIT.

Speed:
I haven’t flowed in more than a year and a half – if you want me to get something down, SLOW DOWN. If I cannot understand you, I will yell clear. If I yell clear more than 3 times, I will stop flowing and become enamored with something on my phone/laptop.

Theory:
I have always disliked theory – I think that it is run oftentimes, not as a remedy against abuse, but as a method of abuse. If you’re going to run theory, there better be a believable abuse story. As I said above, I default to RVIs good – if you run theory, you should be prepared to defend it or suffer the consequences.

Kritiks:
I have never run a K before and I find them befuddling to the mind. I will vote on Ks as long as you explain them to me. If I don’t understand it, I will not vote off of it.

Philosophy:
If you want to have an in-depth philosophical debate about something – I am not your guy. I will be able to understand a total of 0 of your cards when you spread them. If you do choose to run dense arguments or philosophy in front of me, please summarize cards after you read them. If you don’t, I will not vote off of those arguments.

Speaks:
Speaks > 28.5 – You deserve to break.
25 < Speaks < 28.5 – Not bad.
Speaks < 25 – Practice makes perfect.

Misc:
- I will give you an extra 0.1 of a speaker point (up to a 29) for every good West Wing reference you make.
- Please don’t kill each other in CX – I’ve seen people cuss each other out. Not cool. Have fun for goodness sakes :)
- I won’t vote off of racism, sexism, etc. unless there’s a specific remark. Please don't be racist, sexist, etc.
  