
  Background:

High school:
Competed for 3 years in LD, two in policy.

Post High-school:
I've sparingly coached LD at Lone Peak since graduation.
I've been judging LD and policy since I graduated in 2011.

I'd like to consider myself completely unbiased going into the round. I'm not going to evaluate your arguments based on outside knowledge I have of the subject, unless you're completely perverting your evidence, or just simply not understanding it. That being said, I'm not going to drop you for not knowing what you're doing unless your opponent points it out to me.

Theory- I see a lot of people banking on disingenuous theory arguments to win debates for them. Do that all you want, but please try not to be stupid about it. Don't read a shell that is contradictory to arguments you yourself are running. That will just end up making you very vulnerable to RVI's, which I will not hesitate to vote for. As for claims of abuse, I'm probably not going to listen unless you can specifically show me where ground was lost and why that ground actually matters.

K debate- The vast majority of high school LD debaters I see have little to no understanding of what their kritik authors are saying outside of what the 1nc shell says. If you don't understand your authors thoroughly enough to the point that you could explain it to my very Venezuelan father, then don't expect to win. If you don't understand your authors, you're going to explain your arguments poorly, which will lead to you losing with low speaks.

The above also goes for ordinary arguments. If your opponent asks about a specific piece of evidence during cross-x and you have to flip through your expando to see what it says, then you're going to lose speaks (and most likely have poor or nonexistant extensions).

If I hear "Extend _" without it being followed by a reason as to why it matters, it's not going on my flow.

Lastly, please be clear. Spread as fast as you'd like, but if your taglines are slurred to the point of being unintelligible, you're not doing yourself any favors. If at all possible, have your arguments numbered. It keeps my flow clean and makes me happy.

If you have any other questions not addressed here, I'd be happy to answer them in person.
  