
  The short version is that I will vote for any argument if you can win it.

In case you want more, I debated 4 years in high school and 4 in college. In my own debate experience I trended strongly toward critical arguments and impact turns, though only because found these more interesting. I'm not morally opposed to other stuff, nor will I vote against you just because you find yourself on the opposite side of the fence. I just like good arguments.

That being said, some things I think about debate:

Theory- needs an impact. Some FYIs: I am more easily convinced that conditionality is bad than of any other status theory. Fewer arguments with good warrants and impact analysis will beat tag line extensions For theory to be a viable 2AR option the warrants need to be in the 1AR. Same with block/2NR extensions. Slow down when you're reading your blocks.

Topicality- I'll vote on it as soon as the next judge, but you should know that I am unfamiliar with the topic. This means that you should try to be super clear. I don't know what "reasonably topical" means in the context of this topic. Help me out or be otherwise cautious. Do with this what you will. 

I really like critique debate. Mostly I ran psychoanalysis and gender arguments but I'm familiar with a whole lot of other schools of thought. I'll get the argument and I'm probably inclined to agree with your authors but that doesn't mean free parking and you get all the play money. You still have to win. Notes: 1. It makes sense to me to have a reject alternative as long as you're winning a prior question argument. 2. I think it's legit (and encourage you!) to impact turn or have substantive offense on framework. 3. I WILL vote aff without much hesitation on "but plan solves extinction" absent one of several clever responses.

If, however, you're more comfortable reading politics and a counterplan, do that instead. As a judge I'm finding that I don't really prefer one type of debate over another. I just value smart argumentation.

Performance- If it doesn't involve speech, lyrics, poetry, writing or some other form of communication in a language I can understand, you're probably going to need some framing arguments, because dancing alone does not nuclear war outweigh. That being said, I am open to performance and alternative forms of argument/evidence. Narratives, music, poetry, videos, sword fights, satire... Go for it.

The best way to get speaker points is to be smart about your arguments. Smart organizational moves, impressive relevant knowledge, impact analysis early and often, these will boost your speaks.

Do what you do best.
  