
  Call me Jay; they/them pronouns & I probably will not respond to anything else
that being said:
School: University of Texas at Dallas ('19)
Experience: 4 years of high school policy debate at Westwood High School
I got to the ToC senior year, TFA Octofinalist, yadda yadda
cross x is open; prep time ends when flash drive leaves the computer or the email is sent; concessions are important but will rarely win you the debate unless warranted
play me some lana del rey if youre gonna play music tbh
an important caveat: i am only versed heavily in kritik lit. i read edelman (queer theory) for the bulk of my debate career.
t:
im not great here honestly. i default to competing interps like everyone else. im probably more sympathetic to affs with related ground to the topic, but i can be persuaded otherwise. im a huge leftist, so dont pretend to read a critique thats actually just a t argument or something because thats boring. read counterplans about the state if you want, since i'll probably be more likely to vote on that (not being shady)
fw is more or less the same. i dont read the lit so you'll have to explain warrants very well.
cp:
i like them. theyre good. read the text of the counterplan clearly so i know what it is in the 1nc, and dont have to wait until some crossx clarification saves me. you should have evidence specific to your counterplan about the solvency mechanism and answers to perm. 
k:
great. i love nuance and huge link blocks (not joking). i kicked the alt nine times out of ten in my 2nrs and am persuaded by case turns a lot. i would really like something thats very obviously oppositional to the aff, but can deal with theoretical differences (for instance, i once read irigaray against a queer theory aff--you do you). but also, dont just read a kritik because i read them: you better know the lit, know what every term written by your author means, etc etc etc, just be good idk
das:
i read them a lot sophomore year and some of junior year so i know some stuff about them. still not my strong suit but i think disads are pretty easy to deal with. i like impact turn debates and stuff. 
  