
  Extensive background in debate as competitor, coach, judge and now the parent of a debater.

CEDA National Champion
14 Tournament victories
22 "Top Ten" speaker awards

Judging Paradigm
Somewhere between tabula rasa and policy maker. I do believe that debate is an academic game so I look for good arguments and good strategy. Although when judging I am willing to go where the competitors take me. 

I enjoy really good theory arguments if you explain to me why I should vote on them. I don't want to hear generic stock arguments. Apply it specifically to the current round.

Please give me clash...I will get bored if the round is just two ships passing in the night. It also makes it very hard to judge.

I am a strict flow judge so you better give me clear direction on where you are going. If I stop flowing that means you lost me so tell me where you are

I like good substructure in all debate, even LD.

In regards to speed: Remember I don't have a flash drove of your arguments. That being said, In policy anything goes, just be clear and intelligible. I can't flow what I can't understand I need to be able to hear your arguments and evidence. In all other categories I will accept some speed, but expect it to be more conversational.

In rebuttals give me reasons to vote for you. Don't just tell me the other team dropped an argument. Tell me why it's a voting issue. If you tell me that the other team dropped an argument and their response is on my flow, I won't be happy.

I never make my decision before 2AR. I have seen too many rounds won or lost in the last two speeches

I will occasionally ask to see evidence after the round.

Extra points if you make me laugh, produce a 4x6 card, know what an ox box is, or have heard of "Mandatory Policy Testing"


Topicality
Very liberal topic interpretation, however I constantly vote on strategic topicality arguments (remember I'm a games player)

Arguments
I will listen to anything you want to put out there, but support it.

Sportsmanship
Do not ridicule or abuse the other team, don't argue. Remember we were all novices at one time. Please do not answer for your partner in c/x

Most importantly: HAVE FUN!!!
  