
  Northside College Prep 2012
Northwestern 2016 (not debating)
Coaching and judging for Northside

General
This is my second year judging varsity debate. My topic knowledge most likely will be average, so please debate accordingly.

Topicality
Impacts. Too often, topicality and theory debates are discussions of internal links and not a question of impacts. Impacting topicality well will win you the debate. Comparing different forms of education (i.e. topic specific vs. real world, etc.) is good and will push me towards giving you higher speaks.

Potential abuse is not as important to me as what the topic looks like. That said, “we are core of the topic” arguments have never been compelling to me, probably because I’ve never seen them impacted well. Arguments like permutations of the interpretation and aff ground vs neg ground are strategic.

Theory
Conditionality: as of right now, no prevailing bias. I’ve gone through phases where I thought conditionality was terrible for debate and phases where I thought it was fine. If you do go for it in the 2AR, commit and go for it for 5 minutes (or as much time as you need to win the debate).

CP theory: see below.

Kritiks
Neg: Super strategic, as long as you can debate the kritik inside and out - I love kritik debates done well. I’m comfortable with most generic kritiks (Reps Ks, Cap, Heidegger); not too good with crazier ones, but I will vote on them. Please know that I don’t have a lot of knowledge in those areas. If you’re going to go for a floating PIK in the 2NR, make it very obvious. I don’t want to be wondering whether or not a floating PIK was made when I make my decision.

Aff: Alternatives are the weakest part of the kritik. Win framework and weigh your impacts. 

Framework: “Competitive policy option or squo” is not very compelling, but if you can do it well, by all means continue to do so.

CPs
Probably legit: Agent, States, Dispo
Not sure: Consult, Condition, PICs, Word PICs, I-fiat, Condo
Probably not legit: Process, Delay

Disads
Yes. Big disad debates done well will get you high speaks. 

Performance
I ran a lot of different affs in high school, including performance. Despite that, I’m more comfortable with affs that defend a plan. I do find neg debates on framework convincing. If you do choose to run a performance affirmative, tell me how I should evaluate your speech act. Also, have a defense of your speech act/solvency mechanisms and my job will be a lot easier.

Other things
- Flash your things quickly. 
- Prep stops when your flash drive leaves the computer.
- Successfully catching/throwing flash drives will earn you speaker points. Dropping them will lead to a double loss and 25s for everyone. If you make fun of the person who dropped the flash drive, I will give you a 30. 
  