
  Edited new paradigm:
This is mostly in addendum to my old paradigm, which is listed below, but I figured I should preface that paradigm with some notes that are specific to the current season (the 2013-2014 season).
First, I was not available to judge any tournaments in the regular season, so I have heard a grand total of zero debates on the current resolution. This means that I don't know things that may be common knowledge, like various acronyms/policies/actors that will come up in round. I may ask for what these mean in round, but please do this for me so I don't have to ask these kinds of questions. This will probably be especially true for T violations, so I am begging that you slow down when reading these interpretation cards or I will have no idea what you're talking about.


Old paradigm below:

First, as a background, I debated for four years in high school at mead high school, and coached for a couple seasons at Ballard High School. I'm good with speed so long as you're still clear when you speak.
As a judge, I try to let the debaters frame how I should evaluate arguments, but I usually default to offense/defense and competing interpretations on theory and T.
On small theory violations, I am willing to vote on them provided I have some articulation about why its a reason to reject the team, though I think that such impacts are generally pretty easy for the other team to answer (reject the arg, not the team and that sort of thing). Basically, if there's no voter explained on a blippy violation, at best I'll reject the argument.
I'm alright with Ks and enjoy good debates over the framing issue of the K, but I am not that well versed in K literature, so I need good explanation of the thesis of the K if its really complex or has lots of jargon involved.
Things like tag-team cross-x don't matter to me, I try to evaluate the round as much as possible on content and not on other external factors. However, don't be super-rude to the other team, debate is a game and games are no fun when you play with jerks.
One last thing, when I'm judging and you're debating paperless, your prep time ends when the flash drive with your speech on it is in the other team's hand.
  