
  Hey, you're reading this for my judging paradigm I'm sure so I'll try to make this short and sweet.
(little background debated 3 years in highschool, policy, individual state champion on the national service topic for Idaho which probably doesn't mean much to anyone but I was proud also I'm now in my 3rd year of judging highschool debate so I know my way around.)

I'm mainly a policymaker judge but I'll listen to anything you'd like to show me, I'm not apposed to what you would call a K-aff as long as you explain to me why I should vote for you.
speed is cool so type fast! just kidding. K's are cool with me too as long as you explain just a little bit about it that's all I ask. As far as this virtual debate thing goes I can probably figure out what the K is talking about seeing as I can read it a few times. Counter plans are also cool as long as they are competative.

Things I like: Impacts are my best friend if there is no impact in round or out of round why the heck should I vote for you? From the aff some solvency is pretty nice or your plan is pointless! however as you know all of these ideas can be skewed with framework which I have voted on IRL before and will vote for on here also! 

Things I dislike :only run T if it's relavent or some kind of check to make them take 30 seconds to answer thats fine if a team can't answer T then they should lose, but if you run some crap T go for it all round then kick it in the 2 NR I'll be pissed just sayin. This one might be weird to some of you but in Idaho we have a rule in the debate code about not running topical counterplans that will be my philosophy on here also you deserve an explanation for that so here it is! In debate there is an aff and a neg, when you run a topical counterplan you are basically creating a debate with basically 2 aff cases and there is only one aff option on a ballot for me so I have to vote aff right? Untopical counterplans become more competative because to me you have to do a little extra work to make a plan untopical shows me you actually tried something. That being said I'm a pretty open minded individual so if you can run a topical counterplan and show me why A. it's mutually exclusive B. Competative at more then just a my aff is better then their aff level and C. give me some really awesome net benefits! This philosophy could easily change
Also I WILL NOT VOTE ON POTENTIAL ABUSE, it's hypothetical, so hypothetically they could run an aff case 10000 pages long and you'd hypothetically run 100000000 off case and they'd hypothetically run 10000000000 turns on those off case, I could continue on here with hypothetical numbers to infinity but you get the picture if the abuse happens in the round awesome tell me and I'll weigh it if not WELCOME TO DEBATE I made it through you can too!

Thats everything I can think of off the top of my head, if you have questions feel free to ask me, if not right on good luck and have fun!
  