
  In General: I try to insert myself into the round as little as possible. Because of this, it is to your
advantage to clearly articulate and weigh warrants and impacts. This also means that my opinion
of specific arguments doesn’t really matter that much. However, if you’re curious, you can keep
on reading.

Theory: I am probably in the minority, in that I enjoy a good theory debate. I am probably in the
majority, though, in that I think good theory debates are rare. I do think that a theory position
should have an interp, a violation, a standard, and a voter. As a default, I don’t require abuse on
theory in order to vote for it. Obviously, though, if that argument is won in the debate, I would
require abuse. I am willing to vote for an RVI/IVI.

Critical Positions: I am totally fine with critical arguments. However, please have a clear
framework and an alternative. Without these, I generally find that K debates get really messy.
At the end of the round I don’t want to be looking through 5 pages of K flow trying to figure out
what your arguments mean, much less how to evaluate them in the round.

If you think that I hate K debates, you’re wrong. I’m fine with them. I’m just
don’t want to have to do a bunch of work at the end of the round to make my decision. You are
the only one who can make my life easier.

CP’s: I don’t have a default on CPs. I think that PICs are fine. I’m fine with whatever status you
want to make the CP. However, like I said under “Theory,” if a debater runs “PICs bad” and
wins, then I will look to the impacts of the position and go from there. If you’re hitting a CP
and are going to make a perm, don’t just say, “On the CP: Perm.” I will have no idea what this
means. Provide a perm text.

Impacts: I don’t know what “dehumanization” means. You can say it. I’ll write it down. I don’t
really get it. I think it’s debaters way of saying “something bad will happen to people…and it’s
not death.” So, if you’re running dehum as an impact, please explain what you mean by it. I
don’t mind if you always impact to nuke war/extinction; however, I do prefer that the scenario
has a fair probability of happening.

I’m totally cool voting for defense, provided the other debater doesn’t win the argument that I
shouldn’t vote for it.

Please weigh impacts. If you don’t do this, there’s a better chance that you’re not going to like
my decision.

If you have any questions about my philosophy or just want to yell at me for voting against you,
you can email me at cbmaciel@berkeley.edu
  