
  Background: I am a former 2N varsity debater for Alpharetta High School. I was mostly a policy debater so i prefer to have debates centered around the resolution. *IMPORTANT: I GUARANTEE you I have zero knowledge of the topic so you might have to go out of your way to explain somethings to me**
Aff: I'll be honest-I much prefer affs with a plan text but I'll tolerate plan textless affs as long as you are able to: A. Explain the aff to both me and the other team well and B. be able to answer framework well... If you cannot do both of these things expect your speaks to be docked. As far as policy affs go i'm fine with anything as long it has a plan text that can be proven topical... You can even go ahead and add some kritikal impacts if you want.
Neg: I'll go more in-depth into each kind of off-case(including specifically politics and elections) below but as far as general neg strat goes expect me to be very critical of your block and 2NR choices(especially since I was a 2N myself.)
T: I default to competeing interpretations but that doesn't mean you cannot convince to vote on reasonability if you win it and justify it well. Also if you're going for T... I DEMAND A CASELIST FROM BOTH SIDES.
Ks: Don't like em... I'll put up w/ em though. If you run a k in front of me and plan to go for it the same rules that i specified for a plantextless aff above apply...especially point A because i'm not too into critical literature.
D.As: Don't have any problem with them in fact I encourage you to read them.
Politics: YOU NEED UNDERSTAND IT IF YOU WANT ME TO VOTE YOU UP ON IT. DON'T TRY GOING FOR POLITICS IF YOU CANNOT EXPLAIN THE SCENARIO TO ME WELL. Aside from that I will generally storngly encourage you to read it as well.
Elections: Same as politics pretty much and also be prepared to defend the candidate ur saying is good.
C.Ps: I LOVE EM. USE EM. As far as competition goes i default to functional but once again if you can prove that textual competition is more important i will still vote on it.
Framework: I LOVE FRAMEWORK DEBATES(even though I was never that good at them lol). 
  