
  Alyssa Madrid

Debated for Downtown Magnets High School for 3 years (2009-2012)
Judged at the Bay Area Urban Debate League Tournaments for 3 years (2013-Present)
Judged at Cal Berkeley Invitational for 3 Years (2013-2015)

Main things:
I have voted on various sorts of arguments.I am looking for consistency and clarity over speedLine by line and signpostAt the end of the round, I look at who is winning the impacts and which impacts outweigh.If you want me to vote for you, then be clear about what I am voting on and why I am voting on it.I look at Framework first so be clear about how I should evaluate the roundSpecifics over genericsClash!FLOW FLOW and FLOW! (It really bothers me when debaters don't flow)


Topicality: I’ll vote on T if there is clear abuse and especially if the affirmative fails to respond completely. Slow down on the standards.

 Theory: I’ll vote on it however, I’d rather focus on the bigger arguments. Explain the abuse and reasons why I should vote. Slow down on the standards. If your entire rebuttal speech is not dedicated to your theory arguments and claims then I won’t vote on it because you’re obviously not spending enough effort on it. If you believe there is abuse and I should vote in your favor because of it, then show me throughout the round, otherwise, I won’t take your theory arguments into consideration. 

 Framework: Make sure you use the framework strategically. Frame the debate in a way that gives you offense, not just defense. Make the framework debate easy and be clear on why I should view the round in your lens. If you are running framework as a defense of fiat and usfg action, then you must win substantive impacts if you want to persuade me that the theoretical standards of your framework are reasons to reject the team (ie if you win policy simulation good, that would give your education standard more weight).

 Kritiks: I am familiar with the generic Kritiks (Cap, Security, Anthro). Be cautious if you do decide to run a K, because I may not be familiar with certain terms or even certain ideologies. Be clear about what you are criticizing, how the affirmative links, your alternative and how you solve for the harms you are criticizing. Contextualize what you are saying to the round. 

 K Affs: I’m fine with K affs. Remember to tell me what I’m voting for. Framework is important so be sure to tell me what lens I am evaluating through. Explain your interpretations and give warrants. I have not judged a performance aff yet so I advice you to not run that. I have very little experience judging debates that lack statements/resolutions of action (plan/advocacy/etc). Be clear on what I should vote on and why. 

 CP and DA: Run anything you want. I do look at competitiveness and solvency of the CP and I like DAs with specific links. Explain the warrants in the DAs and the net benefits to the counterplan. If your CP clearly doesn’t solve for the aff then I won’t vote on it. If you think the neg is running an abusive CP then call them out on it.

Case Debate: I really do enjoy looking at the case debate. I believe that having one well explained warrant will do more damage than 5 cards that make the same claim. I am looking for a well-developed impact calculus that should either be discussed by the 1AR for the aff and by the Neg block for the neg. Make sure to be consistent as well. 

 Speed: I will say “slow” once or twice if you are going too fast. After that, I’ll just stop flowing so please make sure to go at a reasonable speed. I want to catch every important card, so I can properly evaluate the round. I do encourage all debaters to watch my cues, because I am very obvious if you are not being clear in your speech. If you see me with my pen down, then that means you are too fast or too unclear. Clarity over speed. I will say "clear" or "slow" if needed.

 Speaker points: I deduct if you are being rude to your opponent, to your partner or even to me. After I make my decision, you are free to ask questions however avoid complaining or I will deduct. I also deduct points if you fail to speak during Cross Examination. I allow tag-team CX, but I want to see the strengths of all four debaters. I want to see if you understand what you are advocating and the effectiveness of your delivery. If you start complaining after I have made my decision then you either didn’t read my paradigm or you’re choosing to ignore my preferences and I’ll lower your speaker points to make my preferences clear. 

Paperless Debating: Have files ready for opponents. I will give a maximum of 2 minutes for file jumping, after that, I will begin the timer for your speech. I will lower speaker points if you are trying to steal prep.



If you have any other questions, ask me before the round. Debate is supposed to be fun and educational, so speak with conviction and passion. Above all things, be respectful to everyone in the round. 
Email: alyssa0madrid@aol.com
Alternative email: alyssa0madrid@gmail.com
  