
  Background: I'm a sophomore at UNC Asheville studying Political Science and Philosophy and I used to debate for Pinecrest High School in NC. Three years of PF experience, I switched to LD because LD is way more interesting. I competed nationally in both events and am decently well versed in both. 


Disclaimer: My role in the round is determine who was the more effective debater, as such this is not a laundry list of what you must do to win. Play fair and have fun and we’ll have a good time. I’m more often than not going to be flexible on all of this, and if you have any questions JUST ASK.


TL;DR: (Although if you don’t like reading, why are you doing debate?) I am a technical judge open to all types of argumentation and speeds. Do what you do best, give voter issues, and make it interesting. 


Speed
A bit rusty, I haven’t competed or coached in two years although I should be. Don’t kill me with speed, but I’m good with whatever. If it’s a problem, you’ll see me looking lost and scared with a hand raised.
If the AC strat is to spread out your opponent with taglines, I’ll deal. But if you’re not explaining why any of this is important, don’t expect me to think it is either. 
Framework
Framework is fun, but not necessarily round winning. If it’s not topical and the only reason why you’re ‘winning’, don’t expect to win. This debate is not merely the framework arguments but the internal arguments it encompasses.
The nature of this debate is of course a philosophical one, but I also am aware of the importance of the technical aspects of it. Preempts, prereqs, spikes, and qualifiers could drastically shift my perception of the round. That being said, philosophical frameworks carry just as much weight.
Take time to explain your denser frameworks, I am only human, don’t expect me to understand everything that’s being spread my way. If I can’t understand your framework, I can’t evaluate the round to the best of my ability and properly reward you for your intelligence and skills. 
Rebuttal prefs
I personally see extensions as conceded points that act as automatic offense/defense for your side. If you extend an argument please take the time to impact it, even if it’s brief. If you’re not impacting it, you don’t care about it, and I don’t care about it, tell me why this argument you’re spending speech time on matters or else it doesn’t matter in future speeches. Don’t try to extend through ink, its a waste of your time and does nothing for you, obviously. 
Author names aren’t sufficient, briefly remind us who the hell they were and why that evidence matters, especially when we’re dealing with “Smith 1, Smith 2, Smith 7 and Smith 9”.
Voters are cool, especially if done well. It's always satisfying to give and hear damming voters. More speaks for good voters. Don’t give me 10 though, that’s just silly. 
Don’t make me intervene, weigh your own damn arguments. 
Evidence debates are so PF and especially boring. Contradictory evidence is likely to render both sides awash, unless there’s a serious issue with one side’s sources, etc. 
You know what I hate? New arguments in the 2NR and 2AR, don’t expect me to buy it. Don’t waste your own time or mine addressing new arguments other than reminding me “Hey, this is new.” I’ll likely have already seen it and disregarded it. That being said, don’t waste your time calling out new arguments where there aren’t, but why would you do that?
Theory
Didn’t get to do much theory in high school, and didn’t hear it. That said, bring it on! It’s fun and interesting, use it, just explain it if you see some funky look on my face.
I don’t like blippy theory spikes in cases or theory that is just ridiculous. I want to see clear abuse and a clear reason I vote because of it. If there’s even a question about whether it is viable, don’t bother with it.
Counterplans & Kritik
Read any counterplan you want. My only pet peeve is this: Reading a counterplan is a concession of a unique solvency burden for the NC. Thus, I will inherently hold you to a solvency burden, not your opponent (without substantial reason/argument, of course).
I love well done K debate. If you are reading an abstract K that isn't extremely common, take the time to explain it.
Speaks
I usually never go below 26. I’m quite generous with speaks for a good round.
Extra credit can be received for references to: Quentin Tarantino, House of Cards, Childish Gambino, and well placed memes. 
General Notes
Sit or stand wherever you want. 
I will disclose after round if there is enough time and both debaters are comfortable with it. If not, hit me up after round. 


If you have any comments, questions, concerns, or relevant life stories, feel free to share them before the round!
  