
  Background: I did policy debate in high school for 2 years, and am currently a Freshman at Loyola University Chicago 

Overview: ~Policy leaning judge- not the best judge for K debates, not good with non topical affs, and have a soft spot for framework~Clarity is valued over speed. I'd rather get your tags and understand your arguments than see how many cards you can get through in 8 min. ~Impact Calc is rad!!! like...really rad!!!!!~Overviews JUST AS RAD!!!~Don't be rude, offensive, safe space rules apply. 

Affirmative: 

I appreciate overviews, and explanations of arguments considering I am not super read up on topic specific affirmatives and arguments. Speaking through rebuttals and assessing the negative arguments without just reading cards is appreciated. If you have a kritikal affirmative please do me the biggest favor, and break it down for me. Explain it as though you are talking to a friend who is not a debater. Buzz words, and random jargon are not cool, and don't make sense half the time!!! impact calculus is an important skill, and i greatly value them. Just please do impact calc. 

Disadvantages: My absolute favorite neg arguments. Just explain and articulate the story of the DA well. 

Counterplans: A solid strategic CP+net benefit is my cup of tea. Keep in mind to explain how it solves back any solvency deficit of the aff. Solvency deficits have the ability to outweigh any net benefits. 

Topicality: Im not very well versed in topicality. Although this does not mean I won't vote on it. I think topicality is important in an education and clash standpoint. As long as you impact both, explaining how you have been cheated/caused harm by the affirmative not being topical I will assess the argument. 

Kritiks: same as K affs. Break it down, talk it through, avoid buzz words, I'd just prefer a more straight forward policy debate. 


Miscellaneous: ~I absolutely adore puns. If you can somehow sneak a pun into your speech--brownie points. ~I value good sportsmanship. Don't be rude, and respect each other. Honestly, just be a decent human being. ~Cross ex clears up misconceptions I may have. Don't blow it off, I may seem inattentive at times but I'm listening. ~Show me a cute animal picture or video, or a meme before round just for the hell of it. It'll probably put me in a good mood which is important for my well being. I will also share my memes with you, if you really want. 

My contact info is as follows: Mahnoor.jamal.0@gmail.com or mjamal@luc.edu
  