
  Debate experience:
Northview High School
3 years varsity (including nationals), vice-captain and captain

Judging experience:
JV/Novice State 2014 (Novice LD)
Johns Creek Gladiator Debates 2014 (Novice LD)
Chattahoochee Cougar Classic 2014 (Novice LD)
Chattahoochee Cougar Classic 2015 (Open)
JV/Novice Nationals at Woodward Academy 2016 (Novice LD/JVLD)
Chattahoochee Cougar Classic 2016
Johns Creek Gladiator Debates 2017 (Varsity LD)

Speed: 
I'm ok with speed for the most part. Spreading is generally ok if you are clear, but if you aren't, I will clear you twice before I stop flowing. Make sure you look up once in a while to make sure I'm flowing and understanding your arguments. Slow down a bit for taglines.

Prep:
I'm ok with flex prep. Flashing doesn't count towards prep. Don't steal prep! I'm a really lenient and reasonable judge so I'll let you finish your sentence or w/e.
Roadmap/signpost:
Please do this. It makes it easier to flow the debate and will make it easier for me to give an RFD.

Voters:
Please do this. I want you to write the ballot for me. Tell me EXACTLY why you win, and why I should uphold your framework over your opponents. I shouldn't be doing the work for you. Either tell me how you want me to vote or I'll just vote aff on presumption.

Speaks:
I'm pretty nice with speaks
26- Needs improvement, usually only for novices
27- Average debater, nothing too special
28- Pretty good, could be better but pretty good compared to others
29- Very good debater, prolly some small error stopping me from giving 30
30- See you in breaks b/c you're an amazing speaker
Adjust to your opponent! If you're a varsity LDer who is up against a novice or some other variation of this scenario, don't run Heidegger or some other super-confusing argument to screw them over. I'll still vote on it, but your speaks will be nuked. The purpose of debate is education, and I fail to see how that strategy will educate the novice in any way.

ARGUMENTS:
***I am a more traditional LD judge who accepts progressive arguments as long as they have a clear LD framework. I believe that the framework in LD is the fundamental difference between LD and policy, and so if you don't have this framework I will default to voting against you. If you only want to run policy framework, go do maverick policy b/c I will drop you. I'm not asking for a super philosophical debate (although I do know a lot of philo and enjoy it) but I am asking for Value and Value-Criterion.

Theory:
I generally don't like theory so please avoid some generic theory shell. I will vote on theory if your opponent is being blatantly abusive, but refrain from running it if he/she isn't.
DAs: 
Sure, make sure well-warranted and links to resolution. FRAMEWORK PLEASE.

Kritiks:
YES. I am a really kritikal debater, so I love listening to kritiks. That's not to say I'll always vote for them, but I will understand them and will vote on them if done correctly (assuming opponent doesn't turn). I want LD framework and I want you to sufficiently explain how you link into your opponent's case.

CPs:
YES. I love CPs as well (I really loved debating as neg) so I'm ok with them as long as you provide links and an LD framework (seriously I want framework ok).

Impact calc:
Impact calc is good. I weigh impacts in the RFD if needed.
Above all else, have fun! I believe that if you don't enjoy what you're doing, it's not worth doing, so please have fun and relax. Good luck!
  