
  


    
        Name

        Maldonado, Cristian Lemus - Paradigm

    
    
        Email

        cristianislemus@gmail.com

    
    
        Which events do you typically judge?

        Policy

    
    
        What is your competitive speech or debate experience?

        I did two years of Policy debate during high school and I am on the current Texas A&M Speech and Debate organization. 

    
    
        High School

        Westbury

    
    
        College

        Texas A&M

    
    
        Where have you coached?

        

    
    
        Approximately how many rounds have you judged this season?

        20

    
    
        How many years have you been judging?

        2

    
    
        I would prefer to listen to debates that were about these types of arguments:

        I enjoy Disads and ADVs especially. Especially when they are complimented with good impact calculus. I also enjoy K arguments and K affs, but only when they are done right. As in why its imperative to vote for the K/ K Aff in contrast with all other offense from opposing side. 

    
    
        I give good speaker points to debaters that:

        Give good eye contact, slow down on tags and sources and are clear, ORGANIZED, and expressive in their speeches.

    
    
        I would give low speaker points to a debater that:

        Doesnt slow down on tags/ sources and isnt clear and unorganized.

    
    
        My favorite argument when I was debating was:

        Plank CPs/ Counterplans in general and Disads on Neg and ADVs and Kritikal Affs.

    
    
        I won't vote on these types of arguments:

        Theory Arguments

    
    
        Rate the following argument types

        Topicality: Don't care
Theory: Terrible
Counterplans: Awesome
Disads: Awesome
Kritiks: Alright
Framework: Alright
Speed/Spreading: Awesome

    
    
        Explain your ratings, if you like

        

    
    
        Comments on flowing or speed:

        Good but i can't stress how important it is to slow down as much as possible on tags and sources.

    
    
        Other things a team should know about?

        

    



  