
  Matthew Malia
Affiliation - Edgemont
Strikes - Binghamton, Edgemont

The immutable rules of debate are:

1) A non-threatening atmosphere of mutual respect for all participants is a prerequisite to any debating.

2) Speech and prep times are equal and cannot be changed. You may use less but may not use more.

3) Misrepresenting what you enter into the record of the debate is not allowed. Misrepresenting describes "clipping," "cross reading," and failure to promptly, audibly "mark" the ending of evidence. Failure to follow this rule leads to forfeit of the round which means you receive a loss and zero speaker points.

About my judging style:
I have judged debate for over five years. Research the topic. Speed is good.
I have no ideological investment in the content of debates. I believe the forum that a shared topic of discussion creates is what makes debate valuable. I believe students should make the forum into what they wish it to be.
An ideal debate involves good communication, creativity, and clash. The only possible role of the ballot is to designate who did the better debating which I decide by determining the superior advocacy. Aff should advocate a course of action. Neg should advocate either not acting or a course of action that does not include the aff course of action. 2NR and 2AR should each explain one coherent advocacy. I believe I am able to vote neg to "take no action" even when neg's final argument is in favor of acting. When forced to choose from bad options you should prioritize clash. Offense is sometimes negligible.
As a judge, and as students, being able to organize a debate is important. Successful line by line refutation is necessary to move beyond the 27-point range.

A note about "debates about debate:"Fairness is not an impact. There is no such thing as "in round abuse." The impact to T and theory is education. I generally believe a good interpretation is "good enough" but can be persuaded that I should only vote for the "best possible interpretation."
  