
  I debated for 4 years in high school. That said, I’ve been out of the debate scene for about a year now. This is my first year judging at a large tournament, but I’ve judged at a much smaller scale before. I’m somewhat familiar with what the topic entails, but not familiar with any related abbreviations, cards, or main affs/negs. Explain things to me as you would a small child.
  
 I’m fairly open to any argument as long as you justify you’re claims and what you’re advocating, as well as impact those justifications. Consider me a tabula rasa judge. 
  
 Debate is sweet. When done correctly, debaters can deliver very powerful speeches, advocating ideas they are passionate about. Education comes first. Both sides of the debate, and myself, should walk away educated in some capacity. Beyond the education aspect, feel free to be as entertaining and expressive as you want, and this will likely factor into a bump in your speaker points.
 
Roadmap
  Please make my life (and yours) easier by providing me a roadmap at the beginning of your speech. Also, please do a line-by-line rebuttal. Keep the debate organized.
  
 DAs
 I’ll vote on them. I like the DA debate. Make sure you have valid claims and plausible impacts. Please nail the link. If someone argues an impractical or absurd claim, call them out on it and provide a counter-argument.
  
 CPs
 I’ll vote on them. The CP should be competitive to the affirmative plan and solve for probability, magnitude, and/or timeframe.
  
 T/Theory
 Don't run theory. Like, seriously try not to.
 
Kritiks/Performance
 I’ll vote on them. Didn’t debate much K’s myself but my coaches were all mostly K debaters so I picked up quite a bit. I find the K debate to be enjoyable. Don’t expect me to know anything regarding your K, however, so set up a proper framework and explain the K to me as if you’re explaining to a small child. Kudos for crafting the debate style and presentation to be in sync with the K argument. If you’re opposing the K argument, explain to my why their framework is bad for the purposes of our debate.
  
 Speed/Clarity
 I have been out of the debate scene for about a year so although I don’t mind spreading per se, I recommend not going too fast. If I can’t understand you or you’re going too fast, I will tell you to be clearer, or I will just stop flowing. Slow down when reading taglines and the important parts of your card. 
  
 Cross-X
 My favorite part of policy debate. I won’t factor the cross-x into my flow, but I do enjoy watching good discourse. That said, its up to you to do cross-x how you want. I’m totally fine with tag team cross-x. You can use Cross-X to prep if you want, but I don’t find that as good practice.
  
 Paperless/Prep Time
 Prep time ends when the flash drive leaves the computer. You’re given the amount you are given so don’t go over, and if you repeat this offense I will dock you.
  
 Flowing
 I flow on paper. If I stop flowing, this probably means I can’t follow your argument or you’re going too fast.
  
 Impact Calculus
 Please engage in impact calc. Impact calc can win you rounds. Between probability, timeframe, and magnitude, prove you win on two of the three.
  
 Overall, anything really goes. Make the debate engaging and really hone your rebuttal speeches. At the end of the round, provide me with a solid impact calculus and reasons for why you should win the debate. Dropped arguments will result in 25s, so don’t do it.
  
 Likes: Natives, Space, Impact Calc, Philosophically Engaging Debates, Schopenhauer, Foucault, Cap-K
 Dislikes: Rude people, T/Theory, ASpec, OSpec, Heg Debates, Cap-Good

  