
  *Note that this paradigm is specifically focused towards LD debate. If I am ever judging PF or CX, just ask me for my paradigm.
First off, I urge you to run exactly what you want during the round as long as you make it clear and concise what you are presenting. I find that these rounds are there for you to express your own evaluation of the topic presented. However, running an argument asserting racism, sexism, or homo- trans- etc. -phobia being good/essential, you WILL automatically be dropped.

I’ll try to keep this as short and as simple as possible so you don’t have to scroll through tons of specifics that you might not even need. If you really do have a specific question that I do not cover in this paradigm, ask me before the round starts.

Background: I debated in high school for three years doing mostly LD with some PF here and there. I mostly debated in a traditional circuit, so I am indeed more in line with traditional LD. However, that does not mean that I will automatically vote for the more traditional LD debater.

Speed/Clarity: I’m all for speed as long as you are clear and concise. However, no matter how clear you are, you must slow down for tags and authors if you want me to keep up with your flow. If you are too fast, I will say “clear” if I need you to slow down. If I have to say “clear” more than two times, I will stop trying to flow your speech. I am a firm believer in competitive equality and I believe that it is crucial to debate rounds with traditional debaters. I prefer if you do spread to flash your case over to your opponent, because a CX that only has clarifying questions annoys me and its fair to your opponent.

I’m inexperienced with specific arguments (i.e. theory, K’s, counterplans, etc.) so if you are running something non-traditional, just make it clear what you are arguing so I can understand it.

What I Vote On: I believe that LD debate boils down to the value and criterion. So what I vote on is how you uphold your value with your criterion. Also your final speech should include voters explaining why your arguments uphold your V and C and explain why voting for your side is simply better than voting for your opponent.

Miscellaneous round tips:
Stand when you are presenting. However, during CX I don’t mind if you sit.Don’t look at your opponent during CX.Don’t be abusive during round, new arguments in the 2NR, 2AR are abusive to your opponent and I will NOT weigh them in.2AR speeches in LD are difficult to go over both sides of the flow, so if you just want to use the time for voters and to clear up certain arguments, that’s fine. I will not penalize you for dropping arguments during that time.Claim-Warrant-Impact is really important while debating. If your opponent drops your Contention 3, explain why it is important to extend it across.I will never vote for arguments/constructive claiming that racism, sexism, or homo- trans- etc. -phobia are good things. If you run a constructive saying any of those things are good/essential, I will automatically drop you.I will ask for evidence after the round if the voters and impacts come down to it, so have it ready.
Things I like in a round: Clash, Voters, Impact Calc, being polite to your opponent, topical links, signposting, roadmaps (it doesn’t matter if it is off-time or on-time).

Things I dislike in a round: Anything that insults your opponent whether it be the way they speak or discrimination, ad hominem attacks are not welcome.

All in all, I really enjoyed debate in high school and the point of going to these rounds is to have fun!
  