
  Hello Debaters!
 
My background is four years of debate.
 
My judging will be informed nearly exclusively by what is said in the round. This may seem self-evident but what I mean is that if something is not contested, defined, explained, or detailed when it is relevant to the debate it will not be considered. In other words, do not expect me to make inferences regarding why you are correct and your opponent is wrong.
 
Good evidence impresses me. Well-qualified evidence is even better.
 
Please remember that as a judge I am not required to have any kind of “common sense”: devil’s advocate-style arguments are fine. If your opponent willingly advocates sterilization for petty theft and you don’t define and prove why this is bad in one way or another I will vote for them (as an example, of course). I cannot and will not blindly strike an argument for reasons that are outside the scope of the debate, although if said argument contains an obvious fallacy I’ll think mighty hard about it. The safer course is to address any and all coherent arguments made in whatever manner you think is adequate.
 
It is therefore entirely your obligation to enumerate what/when/why with regard to a voting issue. This extends to theory and/or topicality. Please describe specifically and exactingly each item that you wish to make a voting issue such that it would be clear to a five year old that it is important, even if (s)he doesn’t know what it means.
 
In accordance with the above voting will be based entirely on the flow. In accordance with the previous statement, if something is left unsaid or said so quickly/sloppily that it is unintelligible it will be disregarded. I’ll try hard but don’t expect miracles. Impact calculus is desirable.
 
With regard to speed I believe that I will be able to follow up to a moderately fast rate. If I believe that you are going too quickly to allow good flow I may tell you to be slower or clearer. I don’t anticipate this being a major issue, but some people do surprise me.
 
There is no format to the debate that I forbid/encourage. I will follow what you are doing for as long as it makes sense. If you were more competent than your opponents you may expect good results.
 
Please come prepared to the round and be courteous to both the judges and your opponents. 
  