
  I debated Policy Debate for Fort Lauderdale High School for 4 years and did a little debating the first half of this year as a Freshman at UCF so that tells you something of my experience
I cleared at some national tournaments not all, so I was relatively good at debate.

General
I am fine with speed, I am fine with any argument you want to run but you will have a very hard time convincing me to vote on a one line voting issue (see: intrinsic perms), if they drop it make it huge and give me plenty of reasons to vote for it.
Speed is different than clarity, if you are blazing fast but your face is stuck behind your computer or you are incomprehensible you did not make an argument the other team should call this out, do not get upset with me at the end of the round if I did not get one of your arguments down. What you say only matters if I write it down.

Ks
In High school my sophomore year I went exclusively for the Cap K, my junior year it was the same but Security, then Senior Year I diversified. Yes I have read K lit on those specific topics but I am not well versed in Lacanian psychoanalysis if you want me to understand your K that is even slightly out there you will have to explain to me what the alternative does and you will probably have to win framework (not a necessity it is just what most K debates I have seen in high school devolve into)

T

I actually really like T, I have only judged a few tournaments this year and it was at the beginning of the year, so you need to tell me what the Topicality violation is and get me more familiar with the topic through your violation, also tell me why the plan violates your interp and impact your standards just as you would a DA

Theory

I like theory, see above about one line voting issues.
I like a GOOD theory debate, I know people will ignore this and just read off your blocks but if you flow what they say you can refute it easily and they won't know what to do.
I don't think I really err on either side for theory.
I will not vote on an RVI

DA - CP

I love a good CP and DA debate, I ran politics almost every round past sophomore year, that being said it is not who has the most UQ cards but who can impact what they say the best and tell me why it is better than your opponents evidence
The more specific a CP or DA is the better, generics are alright.

Speaks
I don't think I am a point fairy my points usually vary from 27-28.5, if you want better speaks own it in cross-x (don't be a dick) have a good strategy and make smart arguments, and lastly speak pretty.

If you have any questions please ask me, that's all
  