
  I debated for Ashland high school for four years. I'm currently a freshmen debating for Dartmouth.
1) Shorter speeches = better points.

2) An argument is a claim and a warrant. Unless you provide a reason why what you say is true I don't think your opponent has much of a burden to answer it. This means that even though you assert "severance permutations are a voting issue", you have not advanced an argument for why I should reject the team due to their permutation and I will act accordingly. This also means that you still have to fully explain an argument for to be willing to vote on it, even if it is dropped.

3) Evidence -- I usually try to resolve the debate before calling for cards. I will and often do call for cards in resolving debates, but this is secondary to the arguments that were advanced by the debaters. I will prioritize spin put on evidence over evidence quality. Good evidence> bad analytics. I usually do not evaluate arguments made in cards that I don't believe were explained in a speech.

4) K v policy. I have a read a planless aff, but also regularly went for a policy da. I'm more of a centrist, although I'm probably more familiar with policy than kritkal debate. Also, most of my understanding of these author's ideas comes from debate. Please do not assume that I am familiar with the author you are discussing.

5) I think there can be zero risk of an argument, although this probably won't be super relevant in most debates. Smart defensive arguments are probably underutilized. Debaters seem to often prioritize mediocre carded offense when there are holes that could easily be exploited with smart analytics.

6) I've been the 2n and 2a about equally over my history with debate, the time I've spent as the 2n has probably been most significant in shaping how I view the activity though.

7) Other than that I really have very biases. I think about debate a lot and my viewpoint on most other issues is changing all the time. I also usually end up discarding those viewpoints anyways so none of it really matters.
  