
  Background: I debated for three years at the Bronx High School of Science, competing in Congressional Debate. I currently attend Johns Hopkins University.

Chamber Etiquette: Respect the PO. Don't go over time. Nobody likes hearing a heavy gavel, but POs should not be afraid to use it if warranted. Don't take up time with frivolous motions, but if the PO screws up, call him on it. I believe very strongly in chamber autonomy - you don't need to ask me before doing everything, and should be involved in the debate, not impressing me.

Speeches: I prefer content over presentation, but it still takes good presentation to sell content. The two are part and parcel. Make your points clear, and give a clear impact. Don't make me figure out what you're trying to say. I prefer strong impacts over a lot of points and evidence.
Content: If you come to me with a lot of sources, but no analysis, you will not be looked upon favorably. If you use a source, you'd better give a full tag or else I'll assume you're bullshitting. I like hearing obscure points. If something makes sense logically, I will not at all look down on your speech for not having sources. I believe debate is an intellectual exercise. What that means is that I really prefer a well thought out logical point than a crappy restatement of an expert opinion. Think for yourself, and prove that you know what you're talking about.Presentation: My main point here is be clear. That only comes from knowing your arguments well. Be concise, don't ramble. Stand up, project and articulate. Don't read off your pad.
Chamber Presence: Have a personality, make yourself known. If you don't ask questions, I'll probably assume that you're disinterested. With that said, don't ask stupid ones. This is a time to advance the debate. I really enjoy a lively chamber - clash is incredibly important and shows that you're involved in the debate. Unless you are authorship, I will not rank a speech without refutation. On the topic of refutation and questions: don't do it half assed. If you refute, bury your opponent. If you're questioning, don't hold back. Make it a debate, not a speech contest. On a similar note, pre-prepared, cookie cutter, read speeches are looked upon very unfavorably. If a debate is heavy on one side, and you write a new speech for the other side, I will take note.

Short Version:
Quality over quantityI appreciate logic and analysis more than mostCross-X mattersClash and refutation matterHave personality
Random Stuff:
I really enjoy word play. If you're clever, use it. Don't overdo it. If you can make me laugh, good for you, but don't let it get in the way of the debate.If you try to make a scientific argument, be able to back it up. If you can't, I will call you on it.I don't forget the PO. If you can do a good job of it, go for it. If you can't, please don't.Don't get caught up in terminology or political correctness. Keep the debate to legitimate points. I'm not at all the type to call you on gendered language or anything like that. Still, this is a formal event so be relatively courteous and try not to offend people too much. I am, however, the type to call you on stupid or unwarranted comments.
  