
  Hey y’all! I debated four years at New Trier Township HS in Winnetka, IL and I currently attend the University of Michigan (go blue!) majoring in PoliSci. I debated one year of policy and three years of LD, mostly national circuit with some local.

Overview
-If you’re reading on a computer, I’d like to be included in all email chains(clayla@umich.edu) or flashed the speech doc. If you’re reading on paper, please have a copy ready for your opponent.
-I won’t hesitate to say slow/clear, especially for taglines and author names/dates. If you’re spreading and as long as I have the speech doc, it will be fine.
-ALWAYS ask for trigger warnings and preferred gender pronouns. Make the round as accessible for your opponent as possible. I personally don’t have any trigger warnings and my PGP is her/she.
-Don’t use derogatory or offensive language including but not limited to “retarded”, “gay” as synonymous with stupid, etc. Your speaks will be significantly lowered and I encourage your opponent to call you out on this.

Speaks
If you make logical arguments and are able to explain them clearly, use a good strategy and are a generally polite person, you shouldn’t worry about speaks. I’m pretty generous.

Arguments
Honestly, just make a logical, cohesive argument. Debate should not be based on my personal preferences to arguments but rather a debater’s ability to explain them and convince me of them. Don’t assume I know which argument or philosopher you’re talking about. There’s a good chance I do but still take the time to explain it. Also, please WEIGH your arguments. As the debater, it's your responsibility to explain not only why your winning an argument but also why I should vote on it. Otherwise, I have to interfere and decide what the most important arguments are in the round and it's to your advantage to not leave that up to me. You can pretty much read anything in front of me but please keep in mind:

Theory
I see a lot of debaters default to this, which really isn’t its purpose. I think theory is a fantastic way to level out the playing field and ensure that debates are fair and equally accessible. I would prefer to see theory read only in a truly abusive situation but I also think debate is a space for the debaters and don’t want to discourage anyone from reading theory if it is something you really want to do. Just know you’ll have to do some work on it. Also SLOW DOWN for theory, always.

Ks
I enjoy them a lot and think they should be used more in debate but please make your alt/rotb very clear.

Evidence
A major part of debate is research so it’s fair to expect credible, legitimate evidence. Bonus points for the debater who takes the time to explain why this card matters and why it’s reliable. Extra bonus points for their opponent who calls out bad/miscut evidence. Evidence ethics is a seriously disregarded part of debate with a lot of potential.

Other
I’m not in love with the idea of being spread at the entire debate and only hearing Bostrom 12 and never the debaters own personal opinions/thoughts. I know from experience how easy it is to take your teammate’s case and win a round without ever really understanding it but I truly think the best debaters, and the ones who get the most out of this activity, are the ones who take the last 20-30 seconds of their speech to clearly explain the arguments and how they function in the round thus demonstrating an understanding of them.
If y’all have any questions, please ask me before the round begins. If you have any concerns about my decision, I’d love to explain further. Just ask me after the round. Thanks and happy debating!
  