
  Hey I debated 2 seasons of policy in high school as a bunch of IE (Kansas has weird rules). My initial years were comprised of many straight-up-policy-style arguments. Now I'm at Stanford with 2 years of debate. I'm much better suited for critical debates but don't run them just because you read my profile.

I'll evaluate every argument. The debate room is place you should be having some sort of fun. Mockery is fine if tasteful.
Also, being friendly is a plus for everyone.
Throw some humor into your speeches if you can.
On an unrelated note, bringing me granola bars or some sort of snack will be appreciated. However I don't like soft drinks.

What you care about:
Don't make me do the work for you on the flow. If you don't do the line-by-line or clearly address an argument, don't get upset if I reach an unfavorable conclusion. Reading me cards without providing sufficient analysis leaves the purpose a bit unclear.

T
Aff- reasonabilty has my vote but I can be persuaded to vote for creative and convincing non-topic-related cases.

Neg- Get some substance on the flow. T should not be a go-to-argument. I hate arguments dealing with "should", "USFG", etc and you should too. Impact out the violation. Simply stating that the team is non-topical and attaching some poorly explained standards will not fly or garner support.

Theory- Typically a pretty boring discussion but if it's creative I'll approve. If you notice yourself thinking "I wish I were reading something else" then it's a clear sign I wish you were too.

Case
Aff
Being able to cite authors and point to specific cards = speaks. (same for you neg)

Neg
Throw some case defense at the end of your 1nc after you do your off-case arguments. Aff has to answer them but you already know that. Reading through aff evidence and showing power tags or misuse is great.

Da
Aff- if you can turn this in some way then you'll be fine. Point out flaws in the Link story when you can. 

Neg
Internal links will only help you. Let's avoid generic stuff.

CP
Aff
You need to show that it's noncompetitive and you can perm or that their argument just sucks.

Neg
Show a net benefit and how you solve the impacts. Furthermore show how your cp is awesome. If you run those process cp's I probably won't like it.

K
Aff
Explain: how case doesn't link, perm, or alt doesn't solve or do anything. Weigh your impacts if appropriate. If the neg is misinterpreting an author and you sufficiently illustrate his/her message, then you'll be doing well in the round.

Neg
I like K's a lot. I know what's up. Just explain your story clearly (seriously). Stunt on em.

Performance
Aff
It's goin to come down to how well you can explain the impact you are addressing with your performance.

Neg
I suppose you can do framework or T if you have nothing else but try and interact because the aff team will be prepared. Find something creative to say. A good move is going further left than the Aff's performance.
  