
  
My name is Sergio Martinez. I did ALL of the different debate versions in high school, and I'm pretty familiar with the "rules of the game". Here are my PERSONAL judging "preferences":

 *UPDATE*: I have recently heard a very persuasive argument about why utilitarianism justifies slavery and I will not vote for it under ANY circumstances. Please be aware of this before you debate in front of me.

Paramount value and value criterion? DUH!. of course you need to have this. I mean, this is what Lincoln Douglas is. I feel like today, I don't nearly see as much values debate as I would like. For example, if one person's paramount value is "human rights", and the other person's paramount value is "liberty and justice for all", I will give you low speaker points if you pretend like they're the same thing! seriously? they're 100% different. modern, "TOC" (whatever that is) style debating is really going downhill, because the debaters just gloss right over the values. I want to see A LOT of value clash. 

Theory: What is this? I mean, actually? It seems like kids now think that they can win the debate by getting and saying things that make no sense, (ie "THEORY"). unlike some other "circuit" judges, I WILL NOT be manipulated into signing a ballot for someone who says a bunch of confusing words really fast that don't even relate to the topic. For example, on presumed consent, people would talk about theory, but that literally had NOTHING to do with presumed consent!!!!!!!! Please make sense, or I will NOT vote for you!!!

Critique: Personally, I think the critique is stupid. If you think about it, any refutation is a critique of their argument. So why call it something else? You can make 50 critiques, for all I care, but please don't call it anything fancy. Just do it like a normal refutation!

Contentions: Umm, I think this is pretty self explanatory? Obviously you need contentions. Otherwise, why have a paramount value or value criterion?

Voting issues: the debate for me usually comes down to the values. If you have the wrong value, it means that the rest of your case is also wrong. Strategize accordingly!
Speed: The only thing you should be spreading is cream cheese on a bagel! Enough said.
 Questions after the round: I WILL answer questions, but if you make me uncomfortable after the round, I will report you to tabroom. I judge tournaments to help you, not to feel threatened!

Additional notes:

1. EYE CONTACT IS A MUST! If you're a debater that likes to stare at your computer when you talk, you should probably strike me.

2. I consider myself a circuit judge. That said, please do not ask me ANYTHING about my past experience as a debater. I do not have to prove anything to you about my qualification as a debate judge, and frankly, I think it's quite rude to ask about that.

and most importantly, have fun!

  