
  Background:
Currently a student at UC Berkeley
Debated from 2010-2012 at Francisco Bravo Medical Magnet High School, Los Angeles
Los Angeles Metropolitan Debate League

I have not judged on this topic, so don’t assume that I know anything.



Important: Sign post. Don’t waste time running multiple off cases if you intended to drop them anyways, this takes time away from in depth debating over arguments that matter. Overviews and underviews are important. Don’t spread through your rebuttals. Keep proper structure. If you are going paperless, make sure passing the files is quick and easy. Debate, don’t just read tags back and forth. Performance aff’s are always interesting and fun. Make sure you are friendly and non-offensive. And let’s all have fun!



On aff’s:
Stock issues. (Enough said)

On K’s:
I prefer traditional debates over K-Debates. If you decide to run a K (either on neg or a K-aff), understand that I have a higher threshold and it will require for you to do a lot of work to get the ballot. You must be clear about your arguments, convincing, and demonstrate that you really have strong understanding of your arguments.

On CP’s:
I am interested in hearing CP’s but it must be substantially different and competitive with the aff. I won’t vote for PICs. I believe taking the entire aff and adding a small change is cheating. If you run agent/actor CP just prove to me the significance/impacts.

On DA’s:
As mentioned, I prefer traditional debates. This is where you can win the ballot. The way you run/answer DA’s can make it or break it for you. I would like to see in-depth debating on each DA ran. Each aspect of the DA should be debated! Neg: Update your uniqueness prior to entering the round and put work into arguing the significance of the harms and impacts.

On T’s:
Don’t usually vote for T. If it’s reasonably topical it’s good with me. If you believe the aff is insanely not topical and you cannot debate it, then you should commit to solely running your T.

Framework:
Be clear about your framework. It is your job to lay out the framework for me.

CX: I am okay with tag team CX, but make sure one person isn’t doing all the speaking through all of the CXs. Please be respectful of your opponents. This is where you will gain or lose speaker points. I will be paying attention to how well you can answer questions and how well you actually know your arguments.

Spreading: Clarity>Speed

Most importantly, please have fun, learn from each other, and don’t be rude!

If any other clarifications needed please ask prior the round.
  