
  Affiliation: Timber Creek High School

Experience: I did both LD for the first two years of high school and PF for the rest of high school both locally and nationally. That being said, I received a mostly traditional education in LD, but I am versed in progressive. 2014-2015 will be the first school year of judging, and I don't do collegiate level debate. 

LD

I will accept any argument as long as the link to the topic is there and the explanation is clear, be it DA, Counterplans, Ks, Theory, etc. My only issue is cards and clarity. I will say clear three times before I lower down my pen or stop typing, and arguments that I don't flow won't count towards my decision. Same thing with cards. Unless you tell me what the card is saying and why I should care about the information, it will just be a name without meaning the moment I vote. 

The most important thing for me comes down to framework. If you don't have a framework, you're gonna have a hard time trying to weigh your arguments. 

I like rounds being simple and clear-cut, and while I know that is hard to find, the easier you can make my job the better. I like clash, but clash is nothing unless it is properly weighed. So make sure you and your opponent agree on what it is I'll be judging for in the round or else I'll be voting on what I think is the most important thing in the round. 

With that being said, the less jargon you use in a debate round, the better. I will naturally be more inclined towards a traditional debater considering it is what I know best, but I can and will get over my bias if the progressive debater is better at arguing. That's all that counts in the end.

Presentation/Miscellaneous

The least you can do for your opponent is to be courteous. Even if your opponent is rude, still be courteous. I will take care of bad manners.

Speak clearly. I can follow spreading but I'm not a big fan of it. Clear arguments equals more speaker points.

Keep time of your own prep/Keep time of your opponent's prep. 

Roadmaps are very nice and make me happy.

You and your opponents have done much more research than me on the topic, so keep that in mind when you're debating.

Clarity, argumentation, and courteousness are all factored into your speaker points.
  