
  TL;DR: I’ll vote on most arguments as long as they have a clear warrant and you explain your argumentation. I'm very comfy with plans, theory, and stock debate. Dense philosophy and k lit are a bit out of my comfort zone, but if you explain them well then you'll probably be fine. But please explain them well, it's not my fault if at the end of the round I don't understand them and can't vote for them. Feel free to ask me any questions before the round.
I will bump you up a speaker point if you answer a question in CX with "That's just like, your opinion, man." ~ The Big Lebowski

Long version:
I'm junior in high school right now, and I've been competing on the circuit for the last two years, so I'm fine with speed and most other current trends on the circuit right now.

As a preface: All of my 'defaults' only matter if neither debater takes a stance on the issue during the round. For example, my default is 'No RVI's' but if a debater gives arguments for why there should be RVI's and wins them, I'll have no problem voting on an RVI.

Paradigm: I default to a truth testing paradigm.

Skep, Presumption, Permissibility, etc.: If there is absolutely zero offense in the round I will vote on presumption arguments. If there is no offense in the round and neither of you make presumption arguments, then I’ll vote for whoever I would give higher speaks to. If you win skep and permissibility, I have no qualms voting for you. If you win skep and make no
presumption or permissibility args, then I won’t evaluate skep and I’ll go to the competing framework and evaluate offense under it.

Theory: I default to no RVI’s. I default to competing interpretations on theory, but if you give reasonability arguments AND explicitly define a brightline for reasonability in the debate then I will evaluate theory through reasonability. If you don’t define a brightline for me, I won’t use reasonability. This doesn’t mean you have to be winning the brightline debate by leaps and bounds, but there have to be some arguments regarding a brightline made in the round. I default to drop the argument on theory. I default to topicality coming before theory. If you make really good arguments for why it should be the other way around I’ll evaluate the round with theory>T but my threshold for these arguments are much higher than other arguments because I think issues of
what is topical or not precede issues of fairness or education because being topical is a prerequisite to having any type of productive debate. I default to thinking both fairness and education are important so arguments as to why fairness or education don’t matter at all will be extremely difficult to convince me on. Your job on the voter is to tell me which one is more important. I enjoy creative voters.

Positions: I’ll assume counterplans are unconditional unless specified otherwise. Don’t go through K’s super fast because they’re literally constructed to confused people with their rhetoric. In general I’m not a fan of K debate, but that’s no reason not to run one in front of me. Just make sure you’re explaining your arguments well and not constantly using the K’s rhetoric. I’ll vote on it if you win it. Also be really clear with implications of alternative roles of the ballot. I love plan + counterplan debates. Disads are great as well.

Framework: Go slower on super complicated philo cards if you want me to evaluate them with their full implications. I’ll try to flow them as well as I can but it’s ultimately your fault if I either a)
misinterpret the implication or b) miss one of the more important implications.

Performatives: I really don't know how to evaluate these. But if you're really clear about how I vote, feel free to run them.

Bad Arguments:
1. Offensive arguments (racist arguments, rape good, genocide good).
2. Unwarranted blips (this applies to the theory debate. Please don't reinforce the stereotype of theory debates as gross and blippy)

Speaks: Good strategy and technical proficiency will earn you good speaks. I'll yell 'clear' and 'slow' as many times as I need to, but after the third or fourth time your speaks will steadily start to decrease. Prep stealing or bad flashing practices will also lose speaks.

Misc: My threshold for extensions is fairly low, especially for the 1AR. Author name and tag are fine. Also, interesting debates are fun to judge. Be creative.
  