
  TL;DR version: I'll try my best to be impartial. Debate how you want. If the neg doesn't have offense, I likely wont vote for them. Anything is fair game as long as you aren't a dick.

Semi-long version:

Background:
I debated three years at Jenks High School as a 2N. I've been in the out rounds at several TOC qualifiers and even won some speaker awards. I also won the 6A State Championship in Oklahoma. I know little about the topic so avoid using acronyms if you can.

Topicality:
I went for it a ton. This isn't an auto-win for the neg though. The neg clearly needs to explain why I should prefer their interp over the aff's. I default to competing interps unless another frame for judging T is won. Although they do help, you don't need an in-round abuse story if you can win competing interps. If you go for this, it should be your entire 2NR.

K Affs:
I have no problems with affs that don't have a plan/use performance/are crazy/etc. Your argument still needs to make sense and if you choose not to be topical you should probably have a good reason. I also have no problem voting on framework if the neg wins it.

Theory:
If you want me to vote here, you should probably slow down and actually explain your arguments instead of spreading your coach's blocks. This should be argued alot like T. Each team should have an interpretation, violation, standards, voting issues. There should also be a competing interps/reasonability debate.

Counterplans:
Have a fully written out text. If you don't, I will likely side aff if they call you out on it. "Solves better" is not a persuasive argument unless you win that the CP is mutually exclusive and you win a decent risk of a solvency deficit on the aff. I tend to side with the aff on the legitimacy of conditions and delay counterplans, however, they still need to win the theory debate through explanation and understanding, not blocks.

Disads:
They're good. Is there anything else to say? Specific over generic. Unless you do impact calc, I'll just weigh the impacts myself. You don't want me to weigh them myself.

Kritiks:
My most commonly read were Nietzsche, Psycho Cap, and Give Back the Land. Not every K needs an alt (ex. if rejecting the aff prevents/solves the impact.) Don't overuse lingo to sound smart, I'll just assume you don't know what you're talking about. You should explain your kritik's thesis with the assumption that I know nothing about it.

Be nice. Be funny if you can. Don't forget to have fun! :)
  