
  Affiliation = Stephen F. Austin High School
 School Strikes = Stephen F. Austin High School
 
Edited for 2014-15 Topic
I will listen to just about any debate but if there isnt any articulation of what is happening and what jargon means then I will probably ignore your arguments. You can yell at me but I warned you. I am old and crotchety and I shouldn't have to work that hard.
CXphilosophy = As a preface to the picky stuff, I'd like to make a few
 more general comments first.
 To begin with, I will listen to just about any debate there is out
 there. I enjoy both policy and kritik debates. I find value in both styles
 of debate, and I am willing to adapt to that style.
 Second, have fun. If you're bored, I'm probably real bored. So enjoy
 yourself. Third, I'm ok with fast debates. It would be rare for you to
 completely lose me, however, you spew 5 minutes of blocks on theorical arguments
 I wont have the warrants down on paper and it will probably not be good for you when you ask me to vote on it.
 There is one thing I consider mandatory: Be Clear.
 As a luxury: try to slow down just a bit on a big analytical debate to
 give me pen time.
 Evidence analysis is your job, and it puts me in a weird situation to
 articulate things for you. I will read evidence after many rounds, just
 to make sure I know which are the most important so I can prioritize.
 Too many teams can't dissect the Mead card, but an impact
 takeout is just that. But please do it all the way- explain why these
 arguments aren't true or do not explain the current situation.
 Now the picky stuff:
 Affs I prefer affs with plan texts. If you are running a critical aff please make sure I understand what you are doing and why you are doing it. Using the jargon of your authors without explaining what you are doing won't help me vote for you.
Topicality and Theory- Although I certainly believe in the value of
 both and that it has merit, I am frustrated with teams who refuse to go for
 anything else. To me, Topicality is a check on the fringe, however to
 win a procedural argument in front of me you need specific in round abuse
 and I want you to figure out how this translates into me voting for you. Although I
 feel that scenarios of potential abuse are usually not true, I will vote
 for it if it is a conceded or hardly argued framework or if you can
 describe exactly how a topic or debate round would look like under your
 interpretation and why you have any right to those arguments. I believe in
 the common law tradition of innocence until proven guilty: My bias is
 to err Aff on T and Negative on Theory, until persuaded otherwise.
 Disads- I think that the link debate is really the most significant.
 Im usually willing to grant negative teams a risk of an impact should
 they win a link, but much more demanding linkwise.
 I think uniqueness is important but Im rarely a stickler for dates,
 within reason- if the warrants are there that's all you need. Negatives
 should do their best to provide some story which places the affirmative
 in the context of their disads. They often get away with overly generic
 arguments. Im not dissing them- Reading the Ornstein card is
 sweet- but extrapolate the specifics out of that for the plan, rather
 than leaving it vague.
 Counterplans- The most underrated argument in debate. Many debaters
 don't know the strategic gold these arguments are. Most affirmatives
 get stuck making terrible permutations, which is good if you neg. If you are aff in
 this debate and there is a CP, make a worthwhile permutation, not just "Do
 Both" That has very little meaning. Solvency debates are tricky. I
 need the aff team to quantify a solvency deficit and debate the warrants
 to each actor, the degree and necessity of consultation, etc.
 Kritiks- On the aff, taking care of the framework is an obvious must.
 You just need good defense to the Alternative- other than that, see the
 disad comments about Link debates. Negatives, I'd like so practical
 application of the link and alternative articulated. What does it mean
 to say that the aff is "biopolitical" or "capitalist"? A discussion of
 the aff's place within those systems is important. Second, some judges
 are picky about "rethink" alternatives- Im really not provided you can
 describe a way that it could be implemented. Can only policymakers
 change? how might social movements form as a result of this? I generally
 think its false and strategically bad to leave it at "the people in
 this debate"- find a way to get something changed. I will also admit that
 at the time being, Im not as well read as I should be. I'm also a
 teacher so I've had other priorities as far as literature goes.
 Don't assume I've read the authors you have.

  