
  I am a former Georgia State debater who qualified for the NDT twice and cleared a numerous tournaments including CEDA. I’m currently one of the coaches the GSU squad. 

When I first debated I did debate a lot of C-P’s and D-A’s. My final year and a half, I debated a lot of K’s. I like both! Performance debates are ok see below about my thoughts on those. Below is a breakdown on my views of certain arguments and/or debates I’ve recently seen.

T
I think T is good and is a voter. Abuse stories are good, in round abuse is better. If you are running some nuanced T argument please explain it at some point during the debate. For the Affirmative, counter-interpretations are nice and why there better for debate is a plus for me as well. Saying we don’t abuse you/you have no right to that ground is generally my favorite arguments. For critical teams: I have on more than one occasion voted for a kritik of T, however that doesn’t mean you have a right to be abusive. But you can persuade me that otherwise. Ultimately I’m fine either way 

D-A 

Also a good argument, impact calculus is a plus. On these debates where a bunch of cards are read the debater who tells a story better generally gets my vote plus speaks, Failure to do this leaves me to my own devices. Nothing else I can say on that.

For critical teams: Answer this argument anyway you see fit, but make sure your answer interact with the D-A, saying things like “We don’t have to answer that” or something similar normally is not a good thing. 

K’s 

All kritiks are ok

For critical teams: Do you. I don’t have a prejudice one way or the other. 

C-P
Always a plus. Theory on a C-P, as one debater told another debater when he asked what their status of the C-P is, he said “Conditional”, the other debater said “conditional???” the other debater said YES! Look who are judge is”. That’s me on C-P theory. I’ll vote on theory but it has to be a clean kill not a messy debate otherwise I defer neg.

For critical teams: Answer it as you see fit. 

MISC 

If you want me to either a) change my paradigm b) look at the debate through the eye’s of X or c) create space for something. Please explain my role in the round and what the ballot does. All too often I hear these debates and no one tells me what I should do. And I end up voting against someone because someone said your ballot does nothing. Speaker points: telling jokes are a plus, asking intelligent questions in CX is a plus, making smart decisions is a plus. Challenging the opposing team to a drinking contest…sorry that will only lead to me being drunk. Got questions please ask.
  