
  I debated for Greenhill School for 4 years
I also was a member of USA Debate for a year
I currently attend Georgetown University and coach Greenhill School 

General Comments
OVERVIEW STUFF:I view rounds through a comparative worlds paradigm.Don’t be racist/sexist/homophobic/unnecessarily rude in round or ever.Give your opponent a copy of your case if they ask – printed, flashed, e-mailed, or via a viewing laptop - this could affect speaks if your opponent asks and you say noTHINGS I LIKE:when you talk about the topicwhen you make your advocacy clear and aren't shiftywhen you talk about real world issuesoverviews that explain how I should evaluate the round/prioritize issuesweighing with explanation, not just the jargon of magnitude, probability etc.Extensions– I think 1ARs can have a bit more leeway, but make sure warrants and impacts are clear – author names alone don’t cut itA good CX. CX is binding and I’ll pay attention.THINGS I DISLIKE:racist/sexist/homophobic/classist/offensive arguments and commentsarguments that say any action is permissibletoo many spikes or really long underviews that aren’t related to the topic. If you are aff and concerned about a side bias, write an aff that uses the entire 6 minutes with substantive argumentsmisrepresenting evidence and reading strawperson cards. If there is an evidence ethics challenge, I will read the article and the piece of evidence in question. If you make the challenge, you are staking the round on it.SPEED:Go as fast as you want but don’t sacrifice clarityPlease slow down for interpretations and advocacy textsSlow down for spikes/underview type stuff
Framework
I never was a framework debater myself. But, if you are a framework debater, don’t shy away from your strengths in front of me, just be extra clear and do a lot of interaction and weighing if it's a more complex framework and it should be fine.

Case Debate
Totally fine. A framework is just a way to evaluate what impacts matter. Tell me what impacts matter and what piece of offense applies under that. 

Policy Args
Love them
COUNTERPLANSI love a well thought out CPI'm fine with PICs as wellWhen you debate CPs, make at least one cleverly worded perm and explain how the perm functions (solves all offense, mitigates the link to the disad etc.)DISADSmake sure there is real uniqueness!!!!specific links based on specific affs will make me like you moreKsI prefer specific links over general links that can be re-usedMake sure you can defend the alternative and can EXPLAIN what it meansI’m fine if you have a role of the ballot/role of the judge – but if there is a counter ROB/ROJ, do some weighing
Theory
For me, fairness is not a terminal impact, but it is an internal link to other impacts that are importantThere is no “spirit of the interpretation,” there is just the interpretationDon’t read stupid theory arguments over the smallest technicalities. I’ll be expressive so you can tell what I consider to be reasonable. I’ll evaluate it, but your opponent won’t have a high threshold answering it.
Topicality
T is determined through the plan text.A good T argument should have a specific interpretation and carded evidenceI’ll be impressed if you answer T with specific, carded evidence and do some weighing
  