
  *Email- rachelmauchline@gmail.com*

Introduction
I debated for four years in LD and CX at Bentonville High School, Arkansas and now I work as an Assistant Debate Coach for Bentonville High School while also attending the University of Arkansas. I founded the Speech and Debate team at the University of Arkansas.

Generally, I am open to most styles/arguments. I would consider myself to be a technical and flow judge so keep track of the line by line of arguments. Organization is Key! Overall just be polite and respectful. Have fun! My preferences to specific things are listed below:

I tried to keep it short and sweet...

General Comments.
I am open to whatever speed or style of speaking that best suits you but please be clear. I don't count "flashing" as prep time, as long as its reasonable. Don't steal prep time and don't delay the round substantially. In those instances, prep will restart. I am a big fan of using email chains in order to speed up the process. My email is listed at the bottom of this paradigm. 

Topicality
Topicality is a voting issue and I enjoy a clear and organized topicality debate. Don't just go back and forth reading and rereading definitions but instead have interactions at the standards and voters level of the flow. 

Disadvantages/Counterplans
I am a big fan of case-specific disadvantages. Have clear links to the specific affirmative and expand upon them clearly in the negative block. Be sure to prove how the DA outweighs and turns the case. I am open to whatever type of CP you would like to read (Agent, Timeframe, Consult, etc) Be sure to have a clear net benefit to the CP. Slow down for CP Texts and Permutations.

Kritiks
I was never a massive kritikal debater in high school but I am willing to hear this type of argumentation. I like to hear how the alternative interacts with the affirmative and the affirmative solvency. I know a lot of the generic kritiks, but if you are reading a particular author, be sure to explain the concepts and argumentation to me. I don't have a vast knowledge of all kritikal literature but if this is your style of debate then you do you. 

Case
I believe that case debate is undercovered in many debates by both teams. The affirmative needs to continue to weigh the affirmative against the negative offcase. The negative needs to have specific links to the arguments in the 1AC. I think well-articulated case turns are a great strategy for negative teams. 

Evidence
Make sure that your cards tell the same story as what you are saying. If cards come into question and it's fundamentally important in my decision, I will call for them at the end of the debate. I do value the quality of evidence highly in the round. 1 quality card outweighs 5 poor pieces of evidence.

Random
Be sure to be respectful to both your opponent and judge! I will not vote for an argument that is homophobic, racist, sexist, or offensive in any manner. Overall, have fun and good luck!!

*Email- rachelmauchline@gmail.com*
  