
  Experience:
Second year policy debater at Dartmouth
4 years of policy debate at Lexington HS.
Rounds judged on Education Topic: 0
Last edited: 8/2/2017

Important things people want to know my opinion about:
 General: I will vote on any argument with a claim, warrant, and implication. This means that cheap shots/arguments people think are bad are fair game and shouldn't necessarily be blown off. I will use speaker points, not the ballot, to express my displeasure with a neg strat. I generally find myself to be pretty easy to convince of anything as long as the explanation is good.
I do my utmost to evaluate every debate objectively and will hold myself to a high standard.

Planless affs: I have less experience judging/competing in these kinds of debates. Make sure you explain your stuff, especially how I should be evaluating the round.
T-USFG/Framework: I think T (an argument about limits) is better than framework. The aff should have a counter-interpretation that sets some sort of limit on the size of the topic. From my experience most counter-interpretations aren't very good. I find myself more persuaded by fairness arguments than most people. Please have a terminal impact in the 2NR. If you are at all familiar with John Turner's beliefs about this argument, you will roughly know my views.

Theory:
I find myself leaning neg on most theory questions despite my background as a 2A.
CP Theory: I'm very persuaded when the CP has a solvency advocate/grounding in the literature because that allows the negative to access topic education/lit checks arguments that I think are super good. Without these arguments the neg is in a tough place when reading CPs the "community" agrees are sketchy (consult, process, etc.). Generic/recycled consult Russia blocks will make me sad. Consult Japan on this year's topic will not make me sad.
Conditionality: I'm cooler with contradictions than most people. Otherwise I'm pretty middle of the road. Winning conditionality good/bad as a practice is generally more persuasive than the difference between 1 conditional offcase and 2.

Kritiks
Specificity is key - historical examples are really awesome.
Good k debate is good case debate.
Prioritize explanation over evidence in the block.
Don't assume that I have familiarity with anything beyond the most basic terms/concepts.
I don't like vagueness very much - make sure 1NC cx/block make it very clear what the alt does.

Misc stuff
 Things I Like:
Organization, clarity, examples, and using cx well. Making my flow nice, being smart (know what you're talking about), and making me laugh (I like sarcasm and (Boston) sports) are a+ strategies for a+ speaker points.
Use and follow a numbering system. If you don't do that, please make the delineation between arguments very clear.
Impact calculus. Framing in final rebuttals gives you more control over my ballot.
Bold strategic decisions. Power moves will be rewarded.
Email chains (flashdrives are annoying). Include me at duncan.s.mccallum@gmail.com.
Presumption. Everyone likes a good case debate. I do too. Goes towards less change.
Limits. Cooler than ground. Should be predictable. Caselists are absolutely necessary.
Making people look silly in CX. People generally make up a lot of shit/don't understand how stuff works. Call them on it.
Tricky disads. Really any disads actually.
Being nice.
Tech, as opposed to truth.
Offense/defense paradigm. This opinion can change though.
Jokes about Dartmouth Debate(rs).

Things I don't like:
Overviews. Everything that can be on the line by line should be. That said, it is very important that I understand your argument. For complex arguments that often necessitates (not too long) overviews.
People who steal prep.
Most I/Ls - expose bad arguments please.
Judge kicking without an argument for why I should.
Messing up pronouns (I'm he/him/his).
Judge intervention.
People who speed through theory - makes my flow sad.
High pitched humming sounds. Clarity is cool.
Underhighlighting.

Have fun please! If you're enjoying yourself I am too.
  