
  I debated for four years at Brophy College Prep in Phoenix, and now debate at Georgetown University.

Below are my defaults, but contrary arguments in the debate will always override them. I will try to avoid intervening to my utmost ability, but I am human.

Pre-round quick summary:

Do whatever you do best.
Tech informs truth.
Reject the argument unless conditionality or told otherwise.
Good analytics outweigh bad cards/arguments.
Competing interpretations.
I will reward smart, well-researched arguments.
Be nice and don’t cheat.

The specifics:

Evidence:
Quality outweighs quantity, unless it is a quantity of distinct warrants.
Spin and analysis is important, and the best debaters will compare their evidence to their opponents’.

CPs:
They should be textually and functionally competitive.


I don’t love process, consult or other counterplans that compete off of immediacy/certainty. That being said, I went for them a fair amount, and understand their strategic purpose in the negative arsenal. I will generally err aff on theory debates for those types of CPs, but a solvency advocate (ideally normative) will go a long way towards defending the theoretical legitimacy of those CPs.

Word PICs are awful. Again, I read them, but against affs that don't really play around with discourse/reps/etc., I think it’s somewhat ridiculous to read them unless you have a solvency advocate or some very good evidence that change the functional result of the plan.

DAs:
Link controls direction of uniqueness.

Kritiks:
I err towards granting the aff implementation. That being said, “we get aff” is distinct from “role of the ballot” or “the judge is…” The latter two determine what I do with/how I evaluate the aff.
Generally, the best K debates are the most specific and well-researched. Turns the case, historical examples, case-specific application of link arguments are all essential. I think value to life arguments are dumb. That being said, don't drop K "cheap shots" or you will most likely lose.

Topicality:
It's just an impact debate. I don't think T is a priori if you can win offensive reasons to include your aff.
Reasonability seems rather silly, but is a question of your interpretation being reasonable rather than the aff being reasonably topical. 

Theory (by argument):
Condo: neg unless contradictory/more than 2
--I will not kick the cp/alt unless the 2nr tells me to. 
Presumption: towards less change.
Intrinsicness: opportunity costs.
CPs: solvency advocate is the threshold for legitimacy. The more normative and comparative, the better.
Plan inclusive CPs: probably good

K affs:
These are just impact debates. If you're neg, make sure you tie your internal link claims--aff causes an unlimited topic :(--to an actual impact--just winning the internal is an fyi.

Speaker points:
I will reward:

Smart arguments
Comparative impact calculus
Good research
Case-specific strategies
Humor
Efficiency
Clarity
Embedded clash

Ethics/Offensiveness:
Card clipping is an auto-loss, but is difficult to prove.

Paperless:
Flexible unless tech problems get egregious.
  