
  "THE TRUTH? ONLY THE MOST GENOCIDAL IDEOLOGY IN THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD??"
My judge paradigm is directed towards novices. I am a senior at Lane Tech in Chicago, fourth year debating in high school. 
Last Update: October 27, 2016
email me speech docs: lindsaydebate@gmail.com
pronouns = she/her

About Me-
I was in 7 Week Umich K lab last summer! Michigan labs the 2 summers before
joe krakoff, marquis ard, brooke kimbrough, will morgan, and james mollison and Dr.Greenstien are people who have inspired and impacted my debate career.
I've read "soft left" anthro plantext whale affs to plantextless Latinx identity and Queer Toxicity K affs to Steel with a hege impact. I like to research all types of arguments in debate, and will hopefully be a good judge to evaluate any argument presented in the round.. Bataille or the Ex-Im DA. 


Expectations/How to get good speaks
Flow and use your flow during speeches!
Sign post and be CLEAR
Don't be boring!
I tend to give high speaks to teams that make the debate more fun to judge! 

Performance Affs
Hell yaa, I read these myself. Give me a reason why your affirmative is important. Tell me my role as a judge.

Framework
You can read framework but please engage with the affirmative! If you do not do this winning will be an uphill battle.


Kritiks
I love kritiks, but
I do not want to see novices read a kritik that they do not know how to explain or debate. I do not want to see novices reading prewritten blocks. This does not show me you understand the kritik.
Show me that you're very passionate about and have learned the literature and how to deploy it. don't go for a K infront of me just because I like them, I vote for the team that wins the roun
I have judged 1 2NR on the security K and voted that team down, because they did not explain the link or talk about the affirmative at all in relation to the K... Please do this if you plan on going for any k 





DAs
My favorite DA is any politics DA
I love the politics DA so much 
Least Favorite is Rights Malthus

CPs
I like PICs lol


Topicality
convince me that the aff isnt topical 



FLOW
 

If you win i will vote for you
  