
  Background: I debated LD in high school for 3 years on the New Orleans local circuit and 2 years on the national circuit. My school’s team did not travel nationally, so for my sophomore and junior years, I worked a lot with Jim Huang and Jacob Pritt from New Orleans Jesuit. I qualified to the TOC my junior year but then stopped doing debate for my senior year as it became too expensive, and I got involved in some political activities that took up a lot of time.

Overview: I will judge the round as objectively as possible based on the flow. I am not opposed to voting on any argument (metaethics, theory, t, presumption, permissibility, prefiat args, etc); however, it is essential that you clearly impact your arguments to a standard/framework/decision-calculus and/or clearly explain how I should evaluate arguments in the round.

Speed: I debated as fast as most people on the circuit in high school and enjoy fast-paced debates. However, as I did not debate my senior year and took a gap year subsequently, it has been 2 YEARS since I flowed speed. As a result, I am out of practice, and it is preferable for you to not read at your fastest speed. If you do so and I don’t understand what you are saying, I will not hold it against you but will yell clear. If I continue to yell clear and you do not slow down, be aware that I will not vote on any argument that I did not flow/comprehend. Additionally, as I have been out of debate for 2 years, you will still need to be clear when you are reading stock framework and topical evidence as I am most likely not familiar with it.

Speaks: I think they are somewhat arbitrary and will probably be more generous with them than most judges.

Conclusion: I look forward to judging complex and interesting (but clear and coherent) debates in which diverse arguments are impacted, compared, and weighed. I intentionally did not include my personal opinion on a variety of issues (skep, competing world vs truth testing, etc.) because I am really open to voting on any argument as long as it meets the criteria I explained above.
  