
  I’m a parent of two first year LD debater, so I’m relatively lay. If you have questions please ask me before the round starts.

Roadmap: I am a strong believer in the roadmap or the overview. If you want a brief, non-argumentative off-time roadmap feel free.

Extensions: I don’t extend card names because I probably only understand a third of what you say. And I won’t extend for you. I need you to tell me why an argument is important enough to extend.

Speed: Please go slow. If you are not clear, it doesn’t go on my flow.

Framework: I NEED A CLEAR FRAMEWORK, VOTERS, AND WEIGHING. I will listen to traditional V/VC or ROJ/ROB or a standard. You will need offense under this FW to win. Weighing is important. If you make me weigh I will not be happy, and you may not be happy either.

Theory: Just don’t. I don’t know debate norms, so unless I see in round abuse I won’t vote on it.

Topicality: I don’t have any experience for non-topical affirmatives, so please avoid these.

Policy Arguments: These are fine, but I do need impacts and solvency. I do not appreciate PICs.

Critical Arguments: I am not deep in the lit, so I’ll hear it but don’t expect me to understand it without some explanation on your part.

Organization: I really really really like numbered and/or lettered arguments.

Speaks: I give speaks based on clarity in round. I often find too much jargon prevents clarity, just as a heads up. However, a fast way to lose speaks is unprofessional behavior. Typically I don’t give below a 25, but you are unlikely to get a 30. I am not opposed to giving a LPW.

Prep: I’m cool with flex-prep, but I need you to tell if that’s something you want before the round starts. Keep your own prep please. Flashing doesn’t count towards prep, but don’t be abusive. I will say something if I think flashing is becoming a problem. I may ask for evidence too.

I will not tolerate racist, sexist, homophobic, transphobic, etc. behavior. You will lose my ballot if you choose to act this way.
 
TL;DR I’m lay. Be slow and clear.
  