
  Experience:
2010- 2013 Kapaun Mt. Carmel Catholic High School
2013 - 2015 UT Dallas

I will vote on whatever you tell me as long as it's impacted and you've extended warrants. Even in critical or theory debates, the flow still matters so please do not ignore/concede half the round unless you explain why are you able to do that. Do not assume that I am thinking their argument is just as stupid as you do. I guess I'll go on to more specifics. You really should tell me how to evaluate the round and do some impact calc. I do not want to do the work for you and odds are the more work you make me do, the less likely it is to end up in your favor. Clarity is important. I have to be able to flow you. If you're not clear, I will yell it a few times but after I start to look really annoyed, don't expect the courtesy. My face is really expressive so you will know what I am thinking - use that to your advantage.

T - My threshold on T is pretty high. If you are going to go for T in front of me you have to do two things: 1) spend all of your 2nr on it. Sounds like common sense but you'd be surprised. 2) Impact it out. I get that you think limits and ground matter but why? How do they relate to your voters and how do they impact the round as a whole? If you do these two things it is substantially easier for me to vote on T.

Theory as a whole - same thing as T pretty much. May want to slow down on these a bit especially if you think it will become a big deal in the debate, just want to be on the safe side. If it's impacted properly, not entirely unwarranted, and better than the other team, I'll vote on it.

CPs - Anything goes as long as you answer the theory on it. Be sure to compare the cp to the aff in terms of net benefits

DAs - Again, I'm game for anything, just be sure to do some impact calc on how it turns case and you're golden.

Ks - I have a fair understanding of a few K's. In college, I read Sexual Difference and Multiplicities so I have a pretty good understanding of these arguments. The basic K's like cap and security I ran a lot in high school. You should be sure to explain a few things to increase your chances of winning: Explain specifically how it links in terms of the aff (so even if the evidence isn't specific, explain exactly what aff did to link) and explain how each link is a possible da to the perm. Explain how the alt interacts with the world of the aff and resolves their impacts (if they have any left). Framework is also a possibility for me to vote on if its impacted properly. All types of Kritical Affs are fine with me. Please explain what the alternative does coherently to resolve your impacts and don't just reread the tag because you don't know.

In sum, if you explain and impact your argument, I'm fine with whatever.
  