
  (Scroll down for PF paradigm)

LD:
I am a parent of former LD and PFD competitors. I am an engineer by education and naturally very analytical. I’ve never competed within a formal debate structure, but I love to engage in intellectually insightful and heated arguments over competing ideas. My personality type is considered to be a visionary philosopher, meaning that I am innately driven to formulate the way things ought to be based on set of rigorous standards. Thus judging LD debate is particularly rewarding to me. In the past 5+ years, I have adjudicated more than 225 LD rounds, at both the Novice and Varsity levels, in prelims as well as out rounds, including Semis & Finals panels, and within both Arizona and Utah.

On Framework: Prefer a traditional one; however I will accept any case structure you present. I ask that you make your argument structure clear to facilitate flowing.

On A Priories’: I’m not a big fan of them. They can work if unchallenged, however my threshold for defeating them is fairly low.

On Speed: The fastest of spreaders go too fast for me. I will say "slow" if I can’t keep up. I can appreciate that your constructive case is timed out and likely can’t be slowed down. A brief pause before making a critical point will ensure I capture it on the flow. If you are not sure how well I handled your speed, make sure impacts are well communicated during your 1st rebuttal.

Time Signals: I will keep the official time, however I prefer you monitor your own speaking times, so that I can concentrate on the flow. I will give them if you ask.

Things I Appreciate: road mapping and signposting, warrants and impacts on both sides of the flow, crystallization in final speech, and reasons to prefer your arguments over the opponents.

Reason For Decision: I don’t follow a standard calculus because every round is unique. However, I always look for weaknesses and mistakes when making arguments. If your opponent points them out, you’ll lose that argument. Dropped arguments will cost you based on their proportional value in the round. Unprofessional conduct will not cost you a round, but will be reflected in speaker points. Flawless execution wins every time and will get the maximum speaker points. Disorganization and grasping for ideas during rebuttals is death. It shows a lack of confidence and that you are not a master of the subject, thus giving me a reason to doubt your credibility. 


PF:
I am a parent of former LD and PFD competitors. I am an engineer by education and naturally very analytical. I’ve never competed within a formal debate structure, but I love to engage in intellectually insightful and heated arguments over competing ideas. I find judging PFD to be particularly enjoyable. The competitors do all the hard work ( research and argumentation ) and I get a free education which helps me form my own position on current social issues. In the past 4+ years, I have adjudicated more than 90 PFD rounds, at both the Novice and Varsity levels, in prelims as well as out rounds, including Semis & Finals panels, and within both Arizona and Utah.

On Speed: The fastest of spreaders go too fast for me. I will say "slow" if I can’t keep up and “clear” if I’m having trouble understanding your speech. I can appreciate that your 1st speaker’s constructive case is timed out and likely can’t be slowed down. A brief pause before making a critical point will ensure I capture it on the flow. If you are not sure how well I handled your speed, make sure impacts are well communicated during your 2nd speaker’s first speech.

Time Signals: I will keep the official time, however I prefer you monitor your own speaking times, so that I can concentrate on the flow. I will give them if you ask.

Things I Appreciate: CLASH ! In particular, quick, witty, and thought provoking questions during cross-fire. This brings life to the debate. Turning opponents arguments by exposing flaws, inconsistencies, contradictions, inaccuracies, and limited applicability. Crystallization in the Summary speeches, and convincing reasons to prefer your arguments over the opponents in the Final Focus speeches.

Reason For Decision: I don’t follow a standard calculus because every round is unique. However, I always look to the strength of your evidence which supports your claims, the quality of your analysis / warrants, and in particular, the impacts your arguments produce. Dropped and lost arguments will cost you based on their proportional value in the round. Unprofessional conduct will not cost you a round, but will be reflected in speaker points. Flawless execution wins every time and will get the maximum speaker points. Disorganization and grasping for ideas during speeches is death. It shows a lack of confidence and that you are not a master of the subject, thus giving me a reason to doubt your credibility.
  