
  ME: Quinton McKnight
 SCHOOL AFFILIATION: University of Nevada – Las Vegas/Green Valley HS
 SCHOOLS I STRIKE: Green Valley HS
 NUMBER OF ROUNDS ON THIS YEAR’S TOPIC: 0
 NUMBER OF YEARS JUDGING: 1 
 I am currently in my Fourth year of CX debate.

Please

Make deep link analysis; explain what your [alt/CP/perm] functionally does, and what the world after your [alt/CP/perm] looks like; make overviews that are efficient and make the rest of your speech more efficient; do good line-by-line debating, but know how to strategically group arguments; answer the other team's theory block; split the block properly; be clear; be concise; tell me to call for cards if you don't have enough time to explain how terrible they are; explain your cards and how spectacular they are, instead of having me call for them; frame theory voters as impacts; debate well

Don't
Call your [opponents, opponents' arguments, judge, partner] stupid, gay, lame, dumb, or any other colloquial insult that would make you look like a tool. Besides, it's much cooler to call something "asinine" than it is to call it "crappy"; drop arguments; ignore arguments; underviews; overviews that are 2+ minutes long; say "it's a voter" without explaining why; put "that's an independent voter" on 7 2AC arguments; read a K when you don't know the fundamental philosophy it is rooted in; "brief off-time roadmap"; be wrong about historical facts; extend taglines; debate poorly

Kritiks

I'm open to anything - I've done research for my team in several different kinds of kritikal argumentation and I can follow you. However, there are several things I want you to do on the K flow.

1. An overview that isn't written in a postmodern generator - I don't want to hear your "buzz words" that you read in the literature. You have to do your own analysis of the impact and link debate

2. Give me clash on the framework debate - I don't want to hear framework shells and teams that ignore each other on the flow - with that said make sure you show me what debate looks like under your interp and how other team will exist under it

Disads

nothing too substantial here - I want good overviews and compartmentalized link debates - really condense this flow in the 2nr/2ar. However, on ptx debates I want qualified evidence to support your args - I'm getting tired of reading ptx cards with enormous 2nr/2ar spin.

CP

Anything is game. I love case specific Counterplans. As far as permutations go, make sure that the perm actually makes sense. I don't want to hear 8 different perms that try to confuse the hell out of the other team - one good one that proves the plan and the counterplan aren't mutually exclusive is good enough.

T/Theory - If you want to read one of these arguments then I want individual analysis - NOT BLOCK READING - please, no judge wants to see you read a piece of paper that your coach put together for 3 speeches - take chances with your own analysis and I will be more inclined to vote for you. I want to see kids in the community taking their own initiative.

Other than that, just have fun
  