
  My Judging Philosophy 
CX: I'm not a policy coach. GO SSSSLLLLOOOOOWWWWLLLLYYY. Consider me a high school English teacher who likes well-articulated arguments and CLEAR LINKS. I need you to make it CRYSTAL CLEAR WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT, as this is probably the first time I have heard about it. Thanks. If you go fast, it will be a toss-up for the winner. 
LD: I like a clear winner. If you're winning on multiple flows, that makes my job easy, so I'll vote for you. I like debaters who play nicely. I hate low-point wins, but will occasionally award them. I like for the neg (aff too, but the neg especially) to pre-empt in his/her last speech and give a very specific decision calculus within the round that tells me how I should weigh and the reasons I should vote for you over your opponent (not simply why I should not vote for your opponent). If no one is the clear winner of the round, it will be hard to award my ballot to either debater, resulting in my searching for cards to call for comparison, etc. If you do your job well, I won't have to "decide" who won and why; you'll have already made that crystal clear. I strongly dislike unsportsmanlike conduct, i.e. being rude to your opponent.
Regarding Speed: BOTH SPEAKERS MUST GRADUALLY WORK MY EAR UP TO YOUR SPEED. If you want to use speed, you must be clear, or I won't have it on my flow and will therefore not evaluate if it's brought up in your next speech. My threshold for speed is 70%. I'll say clear if you're going too fast or if you aren't enunciating well enough to be understood. PLEASE SIGN POST LIKE CRAZY, even in your rebuttals! Tell me which flow you're on, and where it is on the flow by point, subpoint, and card. I'm new to "progressive" debate, but I LOVE IT! You just have to hold my hand through it, so to speak, and define what you're doing and why it's relevent to the round and if I have to evaluate any specific arguments before looking to the rest of the case, etc. I'm always open to questions before the round starts as long as both debaters are present.
  