
  I debated at William T Dwyer (FL) for 4 years getting a bid to TOC my senior year. I currently do policy debate at University of Florida.

I will vote off of pretty much any argument so long as I can understand the argument and you are not being blatantly offensive. If you are blatantly offensive I will not only vote you down but tank your speaks. Don’t be an asshole.

Stolen from Maddy Stevens paradigm: 

“when i say ask for triggers/give a content warning i am being super serious some conversations are really hard to have and there should never be a point where someone cries because they weren't prepared to have to debate their identity or have their experiences brought up in a round. if you are reading something which you even /think/ could trigger or upset someone, confirm before the round that the conversation is okay, and your approach is okay. tell people what you are running and how you plan on that playing out in the round, ie if youre running something about disability and usually have a role of the ballot where people engage in methods debate let your opponents know that bc nothing would be worse than you forcing a disabled person to debate the correctness or worthiness of disability discussions. additionally, just because i am okay listening to a position does not mean your opponent is, and vice versa, the discussion of safety is applicable to both parties*”


Cool? Cool. 

General Paradigm: 

Speed- I’m fine with speed, I prefer to be on the email chain, I will call clear and I will doc your speaks if I call clear more than 3 times. 

Theory- FOR THE LOVE OF GOD PLEASE DON’T RUN FRIV THEORY IT IS PAINFUL FOR THE JUDGES AND EVERYONE ELSE TRYING TO FLOW. If there is legitimate abuse, I will vote on it but if there isn’t please just leave it in your backfiles. 
IF the round comes down to a theory debate: make the abuse story very clear, do not bring up time skew (it is not a real thing), and don’t be super sketchy.

T- T is cool, but please still make the story clear. I don’t think T should have RVI’s. You would need a VERY good reason if you want to convince me otherwise. 
Also stolen from Maddy Stevens: “T makes more sense to me, but I am still pretty bad at evaluating it. Obviously topicality has its merits, but I am very susceptible to arguments of why ks come before t. I think t can be really interesting (like, what IS a medical procedure?? we just don't know!!), but y'alls obsession with grammar is painful, so I'll be less eager to hear "this colon has x implication). “


Ks- pls pls pls pls. I ran ableism all throughout my senior and currently read a lot of decol. I think k’s should have an alt unless you are critiquing discourse, then reject is sufficient. I’m not as well read on high theory like DnG or Heidegger but so long as YOU understand it and can articulate it then you can read it. 

Policy Args- I think CPs and DAs are p cool. I don’t like extinction scenarios but if you read one please make sure it is plausible and actually makes sense. The last thing I want to do is say I voted on a “risk of extinction.” 

Speaks- also stolen from Maddy: “I will probably start you off at thirty speaks, this will fluctuate as you anger me or make me happy. Problematic discourse will lose you speaks, as will extended pauses, abundant filler words, clarity issues, etc. You can gain those points back by making good arguments, strategic moves, speaking better the next speech, being funny, etc. After saying clear twice I will throw paper balls at you each time you an unclear. Also don't call me by name in round excessively pls it makes me feel too included/involved and I cringe.”

 for the name thing, if both you and your opponent know me, then its fine. But if you know me and your opponent doesn’t we don’t need the awkwardness.


I will only vote on disclosure theory if both teams are relatively big and/or established. If you read it against a small school, feel free, but I will probably not vote on it and your speaks will suffer. 


Pretty much just be nice and make good arguments!

I will give good speaks for: 
References to Ru Paul’s Drag Race
Doggo memes
Being a kind human
  