
  Marisa Mecke Judge Philosophy
 
Background:
I'm a freshman at Davidson College and debated all of high school, mostly as a 1A/2N, and was the captain of Mount Vernon Presbyterian's policy team in Atlanta. I've coached policy, public forum, and middle school public forum and policy. I've debated from the Latin America topic through the China topic.

General comments:
I try to be "tabula rasa" and will vote on just about anything as long as it is argued well. I don't have (or at least I'd like to think that I don't) have any bias against non-traditional affs and arguments (critical affs, policy affs with critical advantages, etc.) feel free to get creative. I ran policy affs, k affs, and critical policy affs through high school, so my understanding of different types of affs runs the gamut.I'm a fan of creative arguments, cross applications, and tricks. And jokes- don't be afraid to make jokes, they will probably work in your favor (jokes about Zach Strother may improve your speaker points).The more you explain your arguments the better- use your evidence and explain ideas. Avoid making claims and then saying author names and counting that as "explaining an argument."Note, if you are running a critical aff or really for any K, try to do your best to explain your arguments thoroughly- do not assume I know highly literature specific language. If you vaguely explain how your k aff solves or how the alt of a k solves, I'll be more likely to vote on a perm or alt doesn't solve arguments.
These are the things I will not vote for or will take away speaker points for:
racist/sexist/ableist/discriminatory language/argumentsInterrupting your partner's speech constantly, or interrupting opponent's speechesExcessive or unnecessary rudeness/snarky-nessUnclear speaking (I will warn you before docking any speaker points)
Theory:
I will listen to framework/T/cp theory/whatever else. I'm honestly not a fan of one off framework. Lastly, I'll probably vote tech over truth even though I'll hate having to do it. I've had my fair share of T & framework rounds so I'm pretty good at following, but just make sure to keep these flows clean as they tend to get a bit wild after the block.

Aside from that, my only other comments would be to try to keep your flows clean, signpost, and I won't take prep time for flashing/emailing unless it becomes ridiculous- I'm sympathetic to computer/technology problems, but also don't want twenty minutes of wasted time.

Any questions, email me at marisa.mecke@gmail.com.
  