
  Debated at Glenbrook North from 2009-2013
Coach of Eden Prairie 2013- Present 

I will vote on anything. I do have my biases, but in most cases they are less exclusionary and more inclusionary. The thing about debate arguments is that they all are really illogical in the real world. All debate arguments are inherently bad "real" arguments. That is not to say there is a difference in debate arguments. A good "debate argument" is simply one that can win you the round strategically. I have never seen why the politics disad makes more sense than any K. If the argument is (really) stupid, just answer it with logic. That's how good debaters win really bad debates. Here are some ways to convince me your really illogical arguments are good enough to vote on:
1) clarity- if i dont know what you are saying the other team gets leeway
2) Organization- make my flow as neat as possible- you dont want me missing something important
3) End Framing- Tell me how to view the round- I come into every round without a strict view on what debate is. That being said if you don't tell me I will defer to classic policy debate (which may not help your case).
4) Here is like an advice section on what I went for and what I think can be good arguments:
Aff- Theory- read it. it'll help defend yourself. Sometimes when you don't the neg takes too much advantage of it. 
Critical Affs- Cool with them- need a RoB or some type of cohesive arguments at least by the top of the 2ac. If it is gonna be a K aff i prefer ones that are tied to the topic, but i understand what trends are looming in the debate community and the major topics we need to address as a community- so im down to hear anything really. 
I read ASATs on the Space Topic while also reading Afrofuturism- do whatever

Neg- Topicality- Always a way out when rounds get too messy.
Cheating Cps- go for it. They can be hilarious, if you are going for them in the 2nr; be theory heavy
ks- good explanation of alternative and the internal links to the impacts
da's- link debates yo
impact turns- <3: risk assessment 
I read cheating Cp's impact turns and K's all in the same rounds while also going for Politics on occasion- do whatever you want.


Have fun with it. Debate is a game.
  