
  Updated for Capitol Beltway Fall Classic 2014
Affiliation: Three years debating for George Mason University

My default is that a given debate should be centered on the hypothetical world where the United States Federal Government substantially increases its non military exploration and/or development of the Earth's oceans. I can be persuaded otherwise, but my default is to deciding a given round using a utilitarian calculus, and to viewing arguments in an offense/defense paradigm.

The Case Debate
Win an impact, and compare that to the impact the other side thinks they will win.
Specificity > Generality
Tech > Truth
More 2NC's should smash the case. I will give a 2NC that is 8 minutes on case a healthy boost in speaker points.

Topicality
Its not just what you do, its what you justify.
Potential abuse is actual abuse.
If you extend T past the 1NC, please slow down, few things are worse that adjudicating a blippy T debate.
Please explain the world of your interpretation-what affirmatives are Topical, what negative arguments would be viable- and compare that with your opponent's interpretation.
I default to competing interpretations, but can be persuaded to prefer reasonability.
T is always a voting issue, and never a reverse voting issue.

Disadvantages
Win an impact, and compare that to the impact the other side thinks they will win.
Specificity > Generality
Tech > Truth
I like Politics and Midterms disads, but I can also be persuaded that they aren't an opportunity cost of doing the plan

Counterplans
I lean Affirmative on Counterplan Theory, but think that most arguments outside of conditionality are probably just reasons to reject the argument and not the team
Please slow down when making Permutations and Theoretical Objections
Advantage Counterplans are strategic and very under-utilized
Consultation, or really any kind of Plan+ counterplans are probably a reason to vote aff on a permuation

Kritiks
Tell me what the alt does, and how it resolves your links
At least make an effort to read a link that is actually specific to what the plan does.
The Permutation resolves links of omission. Read links to what the aff does, not what the aff doesn't.
Tech > Truth. These debates are won more on tricks like the floating pic or frameworks that don't let the aff weigh the plan than anything else.
I am not a huge fan of postmodernism, and I will not do a lot of work for either side in reconstructing the meaning of arguments that are not coherent to me in the debate.
If your strategy is to try to pull heartstrings to win my ballot I suggest you go looking someplace else. Bribe attempts for less than three figures are not worth your time. 


K Affs and Clash of Civilization rounds
I will vote for who wins the round.
I don't understand why "methods debates" by itself means that the aff doesn't get a perm.
I can be persuaded that K affs are unfair.

Paperless
I won't take prep time for jumping unless I have to.

Speaker points
Smart analytics > terrible evidence. Debate should teach you how to think on your feet; You don't need to have a card for everything.
Be nice to your opponents
Be clear, especially on tags and analytics
It would be nice if you would label your offcase positions
I will boost your points if you use examples or references from current events.
  