
  I have been judging policy debate for 4 years. I mostly like to look at the round from an overall standpoint, not a nit-picky "the aff dropped subpoint f on the internal link on DA 2, so neg wins" way. However, certain rounds force me to do this. It depends how the round flows. 

Aff: I am a policymaker judge. If you want to win my ballot, give me a clear impact calculus. If you want to run a critical aff, consider running a more policy-oriented aff. If, however, that is your only strategy, that's fine with me, just make sure you explain your framework and why you o/w negative impacts. Special note on theory: when you run it, make sure you engage the negative's theory and specifically respond to it. Just reading your pre-written condo bad theory block in the 2ac and your 1ar block and calling it a day is not good enough for me. This goes for the negative as well. I tend to have a high threshold for pulling the trigger on theory. You need to prove some in round abuse. Generally I do not vote for potential abuse. It didn't happen, so why vote on it?

Neg: Topicality is a voter. I really like DA's, CP's, and theory. Side note: When you run theory, slow down on it. Since the majority of theory is uncarded, you need to make sure the judge gets it on the flow. Same goes for T, considering how theory-heavy it is. As for K's, I'm not as up to date on the literature as I would like to be, and would really prefer that you don't run them. However, if that is your only strategy, go ahead, but make sure you explain your framework really well and give a clear workable alternative. The K should be specific as possible to the topic area with a clear link. 

Generally, i'm ok with speed as long as you are clear (key word: enunciate). If you start getting mush mouth, I will yell clear once. If you don't get clearer, I will stop flowing. It is in your best interest to sacrifice speed for clarity. 

I try my best not to be an interventionist judge, however, if given no choice I will. To avoid this, make sure you tell me what to vote on. Strategic kicking of arguments is ok with me. 

If you have any other questions feel free to ask me in round.
  