
  Miguel Feliciano
Debated for Beacon High School in New York City for 4 years
Currently debate for University of West Georgia

I am open to everything but don't expect me to be an expert when it comes to the politics DA and CP debate. I have seen these debates go down, of course I have an understanding of what is going on but don't expect me to connect the dots for you. I have no bias, nor preference I am just more trained in the K debate. But if you run the K in front of me and I can tell your doing it simply because you think I only vote on the K, you will not get good speaks. I would rather judge a good "policy debate" than a JV debate on the K. I put a lot of my decision based on the last speeches so make sure they are good, this is the last referent I, as the judge have for each team, so make sure your persuasive. I HATE SHALLOW K DEBATE so if you are not good at it don't go for it in front of me because your speaks will suffer.

Topicality
cool, go for it, but you better be clear on the violation and give examples of the research limits they explode, give examples of affs they justify and tell me why they are non sensical or unfair scholarship for you to research as the negative team. I'm down with a good T debate because you gotta keep affs honest.

Theory
Go for it, generally speaking, claim plus warrant is a voter for me, every argument you make should be a voter because they should all be reasons why you get my ballot. Please do not speed through your blocks because I will not get it down, you have to be clear, I'm good with fast but if I don't understand what your saying I'm not flowing it

Framework is not all that persuasive in front of me but if your a K aff don't expect an easy cop out, I still judge based on my flow and what has happened in the debate, I am still going to make a rational decision based on what happened in the round, not on my own personal convictions. General rule in front of me, make sure you are clear, I hate when people start off a speech spreading top speed and sounding like a dying weasel, high pitch speed is not a good way to start off a speech, you can do that for cards but when it comes to analytics and tags, make sure I am able to flow which means nice and clear. Other than that, I hold NO BIAS, I vote based upon what you tell me to vote for in the round, just explain to me what your argument is and I will do the best to make a rational decision.
  