
  St. Mark’s ’11
NU ’15 

Tech > Truth.

I really don't care what arguments you read. Debate is cool because it's an intellectual marketplace in which a debater's persuasion, not my ideology, determines what sinks or swims.

I will try to read as little evidence as possible and default to explanation done by the debaters in the the absence of further instruction by either side (for example, I am not closed to the arg that debate is a research activity and hence the quality of evidence should come first in my decision)

I am/will be vigilant about rejecting new arguments, but ONLY IF you point out the link (X is new) and the impact (why new args are bad) - "block strategy is determined by the 2ac" may even be enough in the 2NR, depending on the justification for the new argument by the other team, but I need at least something. Frustrating scenario: team A drops an argument; team B extends the argument; team A answers it; then team B extends it again but without saying that team A's arg is new and why that's bad. The burden on proof is clearly on team A to originally answer the argument (I esp think the way 2a's handle the case is getting absurd), but the burden of proof is on team B to delegitimize newly developed responses; otherwise, I will not strike team A's new argument from the flow and I'll assume that both teams agree that the arg was never dropped.

Specific argumentative things
The only real thing worth knowing is that I would probably be more willing to vote on presumption than most judges. It is possible to reduce things to (close enough to) 0 risk, including the 1ac. That said, people are often not good at explaining these arguments so 'only a risk' usually wins the day.

Here's where my minimal biases would fall on a few issues if they were perfectly debated by both sides (or if I'm forced to fill based based on poor explanation, debating, etc)
- I won't kick a CP for the neg if it's never brought up by either side
- Competition determines legitimacy for CPs - if a CP is a legitimate opportunity cost to the aff, aff theory arguments are a bit less persuasive
- Presumption goes to the team advocating less change.

Performance / non-traditional / other ridiculous labels --- an argument is an argument, see top of philosophy, etc. The side most likely to get my ballot in these debates will be the team that can most concisely and coherently explain to me "vote aff/neg because..." Does activism outweigh fairness? Does government engagement outweigh individual resistance? These types of meta-questions usually determine these debates

Things that will annoy me / implicate speaker points
Clarity is important. It will be rewarded and punished in speaker points.

Slow down on cp/plan texts and explain arguments related to the topic. Assume that I don't know anything about economic engagement.

Debate your best, no matter what and have fun! I'm obviously open to aggressive, spirited debates but never cross the line
  