
  yeoo i went to bronx science but those days are over.. im like a junior in college at the time of writing this (emory '18) and i've been involved lightly in the activity since "leaving" it or whatever when i graduated by like coaching here and there, i judge at this tournament every year, etc. generally though i've got "the scoop" on various things you know i did mostly "critical" debate back when i was in high school but we also talked about like "theory" and "topicality" and the "resolution" and "framework" and etc so you know i kinda had a mixed bag experience.. got to see it all just cuz i hung around for like 4 years back in high school. so basically i kinda have it down but i'm not "tapped in" or whatever on whatever "lingo" or "jargon" or "new acronyms" yall throw around today. i like to think i have like a fair amount of common sense so i can "evaluate arguments" im not like a idiot or whatever (prolly an idiot but mad debate judges are idiots most of them prolly except for like alston). this is just to say that i might not be the best judge for you if you only see yourself trying to have the most technical round in front of me.


IN ESSENCE: do your thing, whatever that is. i'd rather just watch some kids do whatever they're interested in rather than try to appease me cuz they heard i was nice with the "kritik" when i was straight up 17 years old. at this point i have very little (read: no) stake in the community to be swayed by any sort of ideology (in the debate communal sense).

make good arguments though i know sophistry is supposed to be like "cute" or "tongue in cheek" or whatever but i always thought it was just kinda silly, you're really gonna act like a fool/sell your intellectual "soul" for a high school debate ballot? maybe that's an ideology idk i just have always thought gimmicks are kinda uhhh "gimmicky"

i mean also obviously be a kind, respectful person. if you're not i'll prolly intervene in some way or another (the ballot being the floor of that intervention rather than the ceiling).

BEST OF LUCK AND MAY THE BEST DEBATER WIN

i mean you're gonna ask me whatever you actually wanna ask me in round anyway -- i'm pretty much just someone who was into critical debate in high school but i can evaluate other types of debate obviously and im 3 years out. not sure how to be more straightfoward about this just pref me if you want.
  