
  I debated LD for 3 years in high school and currently compete for the University of Northern Iowa.

I will do my best to judge your debate fairly and objectively , regardless of the arguments you choose to read. I would rather have you read arguments that you’re interested in / better at debating than attempting to adapt to my preferences based upon this philosophy.
DA's
First and foremost You have to win uniqueness for me to vote on your DA. A specific link to the AFF would be nice especially if they are describing a specific
scenario. These are the 2 big things that I need to vote on the DA. PLEASE CLEARLY EXPLAIN your internal link and impact!!! I would like to know what your DA does and why the AFF specifically causes it to happen.
CP's
I like them and will vote them, but they need to be mutually exclusive i.e. not the plan plus a thing. They should also solve the AFF or most of the AFF.
K's
So I like K's and will vote for them, but you need to have a link to the AFF!!! An actual link, like one that talks about the plan. I am more likely to vote for the perm if you only have a generic link to the AFF, but if you spin the link and tell me how this generic link applies to the plan then I can be convinced. The alt has to be competitive and do something . It doesn't necessarily need to solve the AFF if you win that the epistemology of the AFF is flawed. I also need an detailed explanation of the alt. Btw reject the AFF is not an alt.
T/FW/Theory
I will vote all of these. Please explain your impacts before the 2NR/2AR. Generic T arguments do not go far with me. Ask cross ex questions that set up your argument. 
Case
Everyone should talk about it like it is the greatest or worst thing ever! You have to win the AFF for me to vote for it so spend some time on it. Your AFF should do a thing I don't care what that thing is but it should do something.
Speaker points
26 I rarely gives these out, but if I do that means that you crossed a line somewhere!
27-28.1 You didn't do anything wrong, but keep working hard and practicing.
28.2-28.5 This is about average for me I think you had a couple good moments, but your speech could use more structure
28.6-28.9 You made me laugh and most of your speech was great, but you need to work 1 or 2 things
29-29.9 You gave a great speech and I did not find anything wrong with it.

If you have any questions or concerns email me at Milledbg@uni.edu
  