
  General comments:
I will vote you down immediately if you cheat in any way. I've debated people who've cheated, and its not worth it. Please don't clip cards, lie, etc.
I will do my best not to intervene but some kind of intervention is probably inevitable.
Please give lots of comparative impact/card analysis- adds to the quality of the debate and is one of the main things that goes under-executed in debates.
I like when debates go smaller and in-depth in the block. If you only have one 2nr option coming out of the block but you do an incredible job executing it, awesome! That's a much better debate than having several ok options.
Have fun!! Debate is an awesome activity. Would people really go to debate camps all summer long if it was miserable? Be relaxed and friendly in debates. It will help your speaker points. Please don't be rude. It just makes me not like you. 
Specifics:
 Aff:
-I've read everything from a pro-military hegemony aff to a super kritikal aff where we showed a video of the Challenger blowing up. I'm more comfortable with policy affs and would do a better job at judging a policy round. That isn't to say I will vote you down for reading a k aff. However, I do think affs should have/defend a plan text or advocacy statement. Read whatever you are most comfortable with and do it well.

Theory:
I'm ok with any theory argument. Things that make it easier for you to win on it: If you can prove in round abuse or high potential abuse and time spent on this. If you spend 5 seconds of the 2ac saying "condo bad- judge intervention, c/i- dispo, voter," it's pretty obvious you aren't going for it and it'll be hard to prove abuse that way.

Neg:

Topicality: I'm much more likely to vote on this if there is legitimate abuse. I generally default to competing interpretations but am open to reasonability if its explained beyond just what your blocks say.

Case debates: LOVE THEM. My favorite 2nr option is disad/case. Go for case if its a viable plan, just make sure you have offense and defense, obviduh. Impact turns are super fun and are probably their own 2nr option with like defense too. It's really nice if you can frame each turn like its own d/a with an impact overview and comparison.

Disads: Also, love them. I'm totally ok with new impacts in the 1nr. I've had judges who find that illegit, but I don't really see a problem. Just be careful not to read impacts that are easily turnable because that gives the 1ar an easy option to mess with the neg.

Politics: I'm good with Obama good, Obama bad, reverse politics, etc. Just make sure you keep your story straight because politics can get confusing sometimes.

Counterplans: even though I'm a 2A, I'm ok with pretty much all counter plans as long as they: solve the aff and have a small risk of a net benefit. If you read a CP without a real solvency advocate, you need to answer theory and the solvency deficits really well. Spend lots of time in the block flushing these counterplans out

Kritiks: If you're reading any nongeneric k, explain it well. Please don't change the alternative as the debate progresses. DO NOT group all the perms and give a bunch of generic answers. It takes like 20 seconds more to answer the individual perms. It's not a big deal. Just do it. If the aff wins framework that excludes the k, I don't see a problem voting aff so make sure to cover framework well. Please have a specific link story by the end of the block, it makes the likelihood that you win the debate much higher.





  