
  Hello All, my name is Ellie Miller. I am currently a sophomore varsity debater for James Madison University. I debated for Great Bridge High School for 3 years, one year I debated LD and 1 year in middle school. Basically, what I'm trying to say is I've done this for a really long time. I have also coached for a number of years so no need to worry about my flow or my ability to pick up speed or jargon - unless you're unclear

Couple Debatey Things:

1. I am almost exclusively a policy debater for JMU but don't let that frighten you away from me as a judge. I love the K in debate and respect it as much as K debaters do. Its mostly a style choice for why I debate policy. I am not as knowledgeable of high K theory as some might be but if you explain it in the bloc/2nr I'll easily pull the trigger. If you can't explain it in the 2NR you don't deserve to win anyways.

2. Impact Calc. Impact Calc. Impact Calc. Impact Calc. Impact Calc. No really, best way to my ballot. I refuse to vote for a team that doesn't give me an impact to politics or to starving children. Spell out the ballot in your 2N/2A and you will probably win. 

3. I have medium threshold for theory debates. Basically, if you're going for condo or PICs bad I expect you give me an impact and all the bad things the other teams would cause in debate. I have yet to decide if people quitting is a legit impact or not so if you can figure out something besides that it would be greatly appreciated.

4. Framework - I love a good clash of civs debate. I think there are important questions that are created from these debates. I may be slightly more partial to a policy FW but it would only ever influence my decision if the K team did something super shady.

5. Confidence = speaker points.

6. MOST IMPORTANTLY be nice. I cannot stand mean, rude, or hateful debaters. I appreciate aggressive, confident debating and funny comments but not comments made at the expense of someone's emotions. 

Lastly, I am super approachable and will be more than happy to answer any questions you have about arguments you should have made, arguments you could have made, collegiate debate, or even JMU :)
  