
  I debated for Wake Forest in college and SPASH in high school. I currently coach at Niles North.

Update: 2015-2016: Please cut your speed to where it is understandable and you can avoid double breathing. This should be about 50-75% of your normal top speed. This includes cards. I will say "clear" as many times as it takes. This is a key tip to increase your speaker points and chance of winning in front of me.

I prefer and reward the speaker points for:
- clarity
- organized debates
- strategic thinking
- well researched arguments

I dislike the following and dock speaker points for:
- unclear speaking
- prep stealing/wasting
- being belligerent/overly aggressive

I've updated the argument preference section. I think overall judges should try to fairly evaluate everything before them no matter what the argument is. However, all judges have preferences. If you have the flexibility, here are my most favorite to least favorite types of debates:

Tons of fun:
Aff-specific CP/PIC (not a word pic - a pic out of something substantive in their aff or a CP that comes from the lit about their aff).
Impact turning the aff
K of the aff itself

Totally fine:
Generic DA/Case
Substance CP (not process based) and a DA
Generic middle of the road K (security, neolib, cap, biopower, topic K)
A good T argument (not ASPEC/OSPEC)

OK but a high threshold for good research and practice:
Agent CP's
Wilderson/anti-blackness
Performance arguments

No. Please no:
Baudrillard/Nietzsche/Lacan/Psychoanalysis/Bataille
Process based arguments: consult CP's, rider da's, veto cheato, con con, etc
ASPEC/OSPEC

Do these things when going for these arguments if you want to get good speaker points and win

K's: 1.) Focus on the link. 2.) Write up your link block and turns the case arguments- these should be your primary focus. 3.) Avoid cheap-shots like "you dropped value to life". 4.) Out-research your opponents on the K.

T: 1.) Be slow and clear. Seriously. 2.) Have a case list of what you include, what the aff includes, and why your caselist is better for debate. 3.) Be organized. 4.) Impact your arguments and compare them to your opponents.

DA's: 1.) The link and internal link are most important to me. 2.) Have reasonable turns the case arguments (not nuke war turns terrorism, but trade turns terrorism).

CP's: 1.) Be as specific as possible to the aff. 2.) Don't compete based on the process. 3.) Explain the net benefit. 4.) Debate the impact to the solvency deficits.
  