
  ADOF, Cypress Bay High School (FL) 2012-Present

Experience
During my four years on the Texas high school circuit (2001-2005), I competed in PF, LD, and CX Debate, and was a parli debater for four years in college (2005-2009). I previously coached on the college circuit at California State University, Long Beach (2010-2012), and now, I’m working as the ADOF at Cypress Bay High School in Weston, FL.

General Paradigm
I am open to all types of arguments as long as they are logically sound. You need to make the links and do the analysis for me! I am open to whatever kind of position you would like to run, but clarity and weighing is essential in flushing-out arguments and my decision-making process. That being said, I do appreciate when debaters explain complex theory arguments. As a communication scholar, I obviously grasp and enjoy K debate...but, I also look for and appreciate additional explanations and clarity. Even though I'm familiar with a lot of arguments, I have been spending more time on IE side of speech/debate. Make sure that your arguments are clear.

Most importantly, make sure you tell my WHY YOU WIN THE ROUND. Compare and weigh arguments! Why are your arguments better? 

Speed/Delivery
I think speed is fine within debate, and I would say I'm a 7 out of 10. Please slow down on tag lines so I have time to write them down, and you can go full throttle on cards. If I'm hesitant on a card, I will call for it after the round. Warning: If you cannot articulate your words and everything sounds like gibberish, then you need to slow down. If I am having trouble, I will tell you "clear" and if you keep going and I can't understand, I’ll set down my pen. Also, due to my parli experience, I do enjoy when competitors use persuasiveness, narratives, and vocal emphasis to highlight critical arguments.

Speaker Points
I think that speaker points are unnecessarily arbitrary; I also know that giving every debater in a round 30s skews results. As such, I use speaker points as a rank. If you are the best debater in the round, you will get 30 points, second best, 29 points, etc. I will only give you below a 27 in a round if I am offended about an argument or action in the round.
  