
  Bruce Miller
Bishop Guertin High School

To begin with I am now part of the old guard! I remember those glorious days when policy making ruled the activity and the old stock issue judge was becoming extinct. As a debater, the minor repair was an offense argument and a counter plan was an argument of last ditch effort, an act of desperation. Oh did I mention that the 1NC was all case and the 2NC was all plan attack! (Harvey Brenner was the man back then-unemployment = death! I wonder if he would say it out weighed nuclear war Oh I forgot- nuke war is good or so some teams say…well that another story!)

In terms of the now, I am at heart a policy maker. That does not mean I won’t stray from my comfort zone. I do way too often for my liking. The DA and CP have been around for a long time and I don’t have issues listening to them or voting on them. The same thing can be said of topicality. The kritique is an argument that requires explanation since I am not a student of philosophy. I have to understand what the alternative does or doesn’t do. If the K is unclear to me I am less inclined to vote on it. Theory debate I find DULL! I normally give it as much time evaluating this type of argument as the lightning speed of incoherent tag line debate I hear delivered in rounds. Don’t misunderstand me I will vote on a logically well developed argument but I will also vote on that one dropped argument that gives me no choice but to vote against you.

I do believe that an affirmative should have a plan, constructive are 8 minutes, CX three, and rebuttals 5 minutes. I also think there should be a winner and a loser. I will never claim I am perfect in my decision making. I simply do the best I can. I won’t debate a debater after a round. I have no problem sitting out on a panel. I vote as I see the round.

Open cross examination is the state of the art and I don’t care if you sit or stand when you speak. I find what you are saying more compelling than what you are wearing. Since debate is a competition, I have problems when judges tell debaters they have to be “nice” in CX. Try being nice to the opposing team on a football field and see how long you remain standing. CX should be aggressive and pointed.

Fast speaking is fine as long as you are clear. You should be aware that I am a Physics teacher NOT History or English!

Finally, I have enjoyed this activity as a debater, judge, and coach for over 30 years. I have met lots of great people over this time. The best advice I can give you is to do your best and be proud of what you are able to do.
  