
  This is my first time filling out a judge philosophy, so I am sure I will miss some stuff. That being said if you have any other questions just ask me before the round.
I am a debater for KU and did 4 years of debate in the local Kansas high school circuit before that. This means stock issues are important and I do think the aff has a burden to prove voting for them leads to a necessary change from the status quo.
I am open to most arguments, I think I have read just about every type of affirmative or debated most kritiks, so I am probably familiar with your argument to an extent, but I certainly will default to a policymaker. If you want me to do something else, that is going to need to be explicit in your speeches.
Also, if you are much better at a particular style of debate, you are better off doing that in front of me than adapting too much. I will follow your arguments, I just may not be as familiar with the literature or make the decision the same way others might.

Some general argument thoughts:

Counterplans- I am a big proponent of these, the trickier the better. I am ok with any type of counterplan, PICS, Consult whatever is necessary to win. 

Disadvantages- I look at the link first when determining who wins the disad. I believe I should vote aff if the affirmative wins zero risk of a link, and I do think in the world of debate that is possible. The more specific the higher your speaker points will be rewarded, but I spent most of last year doing politics in the 1NR so I understand the strategic value of it as a tool.

Topicality- It is always a voting issue, that doesn't mean I will always vote on it or that Reasonability doesn't make sense sometimes. If you are reading a framework type argument, bolstering the topicality piece is probably a good decision with me in the back of the room. I think having a point of stasis is very important and am willing to let the debaters decide where they think the most valuable place to place that is. An aff that gives very little ground to the negative is not positioned well in front of me if the negative reads T.

Kritiks - kritiks are fine, and they are often fun. I will flow the debate so dropped arguments are something you probably want to avoid. This means when going for the K, I will be willing to take the easy way out and vote on "fiat isn't real" or some other K trick if necessary.
As far as answering the K, I am a big proponent of debate means something and my ballot does too. This means teams would be smart to push on the alternative, where I usually think the K breaks down and explain why I should try the aff or sitting and waiting for whatever the K is to happen. 

Non-Traditional Affs - these are ok, but I would make sure you are well prepared on the T debate before you read one. If there is no ground for the neg then maybe I am not the judge for you. If you do read one, have a reason that the ballot does something or makes a change. I don't believe proving a harm exists in society is a reason to vote aff, I think that is a reason to be depressed and wish the aff team had shown a way to solve it. Show me what I do matters and you will be in a good place in these rounds.

Theory- totally fine, can be fun, if it is executed poorly the speaker points will likely reflect that. Condo does not outweigh Topicality, I am not sure why it ever would. If Condo is your A-strat, that is fine I am willing to listen, but if the neg goes for T then this argument is a nonstarter with me.
I probably lean towards negative on almost all theory questions, but Condo is only good when moderated. If the neg has six counterplans then you can probably win a well debated Condo debate in front of me, but there are probably bigger holes in that negative strategy that Condo is not the easiest way to win.

Be clear, but speed is encouraged. I like many arguments and I will pay attention to Crossx if it is entertaining or making a point. The team that wins usually is the one that recognizes that CX gives them an additional 12 minutes of speech time.
Don't say offensive things or use hate speech, that isn't going to make me like you very much, cheating is never acceptable and if I know you are clipping I will stop the debate and make my decision on that.

Good luck and feel free to ask me any questions you may have.
  