
  I like a clean fight; don't be disingenuous in the way you debate in front of me. Feel free to read any of the products of your labor. The most universal rule of my judging philosophy is non-intervention. I won't make arguments for you, I try to the best of my ability not to vote due to confirmation bias. Debate could be a game, the public sphere, a laboratory, a breeding ground for future policy wonks, an aesthetic experience, a good conversation, or a battle ground. Its your role to determine the terms of engagement and tell me how to evaluate arguments within a general economy. I don't have a default paradigm on the question of the purpose of debate.

I typically err neg on cp theory and conditionality and aff on topicality. I don't like perm theory. I enjoy new and innovative framework arguments that are specific to the round.

Feel free to run your counterplans, disad's, kritiks, or throw down on case. I'm open to whatever you're interested in. I prefer case specific counterplans or pic's to a generic procedure counterplan. I like politics during election years. If you're going for a disad you need to do a lot of work fleshing out its relationship to the case and each of the advantages. If you're going for the K, I can't emphasize enough the need for specific link work. If you're answering the K, reading a bunch of impact turns that aren't very germane to your aff is not the best way to go. I would be more convinced by well developed, smart & intuitive link turns then a couple of cards from your back files.

Most of all don't let your warrior spirit block off the opportunity for a legitimate encounter with the people you're spending a couple hours holed up in a room with. Let debate be delicious, glorious, and unbounded.

My judging philosophy double turns itself multiple time. I like K's, but no one does a very good job debating them. When in question, err on the side of a counterplan disad strategy. That probably makes the most sense to me. Don't be afraid of going for a fascist interpretation on Topicality. That's how daddy likes it.
  