
  Experience:
3 Years High School CX
1 Year High School LD
3 Years College NPDA

Philosophy:
I have a diverse debate background and I have also competed in individual events.

I enjoy consistent and well formed argumentation. 

In policy debate I will listen to theory arguments. I enjoy the K debate as well. I really like to see debaters that can think for themselves and really understand their arguments. I do not like to hear debates where the shells are well formed, but the debaters can not explain the arguments. I am fine with speed, just speak clearly and make sure your tags and sources are clearly defined. Emphasize important points using varying vocal inflections. It is possible to be fast and have tonal variety. I will certainly vote on T. That said tell me why I should vote and impact your arguments. Impacts can be pre-fiat or post-fiat. I can use my ballot as a tool for change, or I can adopt a policymaker paradigm. Just tell me why I should vote a specific way. 

In LD or value based parliamentary debate I want to be told how to vote. Again I really like to see debaters that can think for themselves and really understand their arguments. I like it when a debater has researched and built her own case, and can show why that case is superior to the other side. Give me a clear value and criteria on which I should be deciding the round. If you want to be creative or adventurous and divert from the LD norm, that is fine by me. Just make sure your arguements are clear and well thought out. I am fine with speed, just speak clearly and make sure your tags and sources are clearly defined. Emphasize important points using varying vocal inflections. It is possible to be fast and have tonal variety. 

I will be happy to answer questions before the round as well. 

I give oral critiques and I will disclose. I believe disclosure is important for the activity as it provides immediate feedback and lets the debaters know what they need to do moving forward to advance. If you do not want me to tell you who won, tell me before the round.
  