
  Bishop Guertin High School and The George Washington University

Year: 2012-2013
Last Revised: September 23, 2012

I debated Policy Debate throughout high school and I am currently a freshman at The George Washington University.

I don’t debate in college. The first tournament I will be judging at Georgetown, I will have no prior experience with this year’s topic at all. As a result, if you get me as a judge, please read the 1AC so that I will be able to understand what your affirmative is, and make sure you use 1AC cross-x to explain it. Same with the negative, expect to go slower so that I will be able to understand what your argument is.

In high school I debated on the National Circuit, so I have been to most national tournaments. As a result, I know how to flow and am fine with spreading, but again, I have not competed since last January 2012. I will indicate whether or not you should slow down. If you are not clear, do not spread. I will indicate whether or not I cannot understand you

I read primarily policy affirmatives in high school. As a 2N, I usually went for policy arguments. If you chose to run a K, make sure you explain how it will interact in the round. My understanding of K literature is very limited.

I am comfortable with policy debates (CP’s, disads, impact turns)

If you run a T violation, make sure you clearly explain the voters and why it is a reason to reject the affirmative team.

I am not your guy for theory arguments, unless your argument is fully dropped and explained why you should win on it.

I will not do the work for you- if it is not on my flow, I will not evaluate the argument. If it is an argument that you thought should have won you the round and I don’t have it flowed, you should have made it clearer in the debate.

Dropped arguments are true arguments if you extend them and explain them.


If in your last rebuttal speeches, you slow down, clearly tell me a story of why I should vote for you and why you should win, list x, y, z reasons and it is clear that you’re doing the work and are ahead, I most likely will vote for you.
  