
  University High School (Newark, NJ) 2016’ 
Rutgers University – Newark (Current School) 2020’
Email: hmontague1@gmail.com 
SB: send memes! 

WARNING: 
I am a point fairy generally here are some tips to get even higher speaks:
 Make a south park joke (ANY south park joke!)Kanye west references (GOOD ONES, I am one of his biggest fans)
Including current issues in the debate, so if you are still reading cards from “1952” I am probably not the judge for youAsk for Pronouns.Generally being nice normally does it for me.SNACKS, bring me snacks and I will love you for life.

GENERAL THINGS (I did not know where to place these lol): 
Cross- EX is binding! * I flow cross –EX * ALL DEBATERS are expected to keep their own time. POLICY: Prep stops when the flash drive has left your computer, or when I receive the email from the email chain. 
Disadvantages:
General points (so you wont have to read the whole thing): 
DA must be coherent ALL 5 PARTS must be clearI am okay with the aff answering the DA however they choose, it’s the negative job to tell me otherwiseImpact CALC is a mustI love a good DA debate!I strongly believe that Disads need to contain uniqueness; the link level of the disad needs to be specific so your old back files with the generic link probably won’t work in front of me, and the internal link chain needs to be a well explained story and needs to actually make logical sense. Lastly the impact, you need to have some type of impact calculus(YOU KNOW those things called probability and time frame and so on). If you want me to vote for the Disad you need to explain to my why the aff shifting the status quo cause this drastic thing.
The affirmative can answer this off case position anyway they want to Other than that I think that the Disad is always up for debate, I think that the aff can answer it whichever way they are comfortable with but there must some offense on the flow if you want to win that flow in front of me.


Theory (NOT LD THEORY): 
General points (so you wont have to read the whole thing):
Don’t spread the interp Don’t have a Vague interp Must have a voter issues I don’t enjoy “potential abuse” arguments I love policy theory debates Condo good, Condo bad, multiple perms bad, PIKS good; YOU NAME IT
The interp debate has to be clear PLEASE DO NOT SPREAD THIS PART OF THE SHELL; it will be best if you have a good interp. For example, I love condo debates but I hate a generic interp like CONDO BAD. You don’t need to provide a counter interp, but I do believe that it would be a good idea if you do. ALL WE MEETS need a warrant (I know this sounds silly), but you would be surprised. Standards, my favorite one are real world and moving target, but overall I am fine with any standard. PLEASE DO NOT read any potential abuse arguments, I would evaluate it but it would be an up hill battle. ALL THEORY SHELLS MUST HAVE A VOTER, if you are going to make the argument that theory is not a voter this should also have a warrant. 

Ks: 
I am fine with the K but of course there are caveats. I believe that Ks should have a specific link those generic links are not going to work and you are most likely going to lose in front of me. I do believe that it's the neg job to explain to me what does the alt looks like in the real world an Overview would really help you here. If the K doesn't solve the aff impacts you most likely would lose if the aff makes a try or die argument, but you can win by making some type of impact calculus. I rarely voted on Root cause debates, but if you explain to me why winning the root cause means I vote for the alt then congrats to you! 
Debating the K: Perm do the aff is NOT A REAL PERM! I believe you can make the same argument without saying "perm". In order to win the K you have to do the bare minimum 
S - solvency deficit it's your job to prove that the K can not solve the entire aff and why that's important, a lot of weighing should be done here 
P- Permutation, you of course will need to remove ALL OF THE LINKS in order to get the perm! PLEASE have a net benefit to your permutation! Yes I do believe in time frame permutations but there should be a reason why I should prefer that permutation over the Alt DO NOT OVER DUE IT! I WILL VOTE ON MULTIPLE PERMS BAD! * SLOW DOWN ON THE PERMUTATION TEXT * 
O- Offense! Some turns (unless your debating a Race K, or Ableism K and etc) only defense would not help you in my eyes so be aware of that! 
  