
  Judging Philosophy--Brenda Montes

I have not debated since 2007, so don't assume I've judged the topic before. I debated in high school and in college, I read mostly K's and performance arguments. I enjoy critical/philosophical arguments, but I prefer debaters to debate what they are good at (ie. don't read a K that you've never read before, or have no clue what it is about--I prefer a good D/A-C/P debate than a bad K debate). 

Topicality/Theory Arguments: if you are going to make this a voting issue, make sure you are impacting the value of these arguments. Just because you win your definition does not mean that you will win the debate--explain your standards and why it's good that I vote for you (what education has been taken away from you? what abuse was there? etc.). Same with theory arguments, just because you extend your arguments does not mean an automatic vote--extend properly, ie., explain the rule, violation and voters. 

Disadvantages/CP: Just be clear, make sure your extending evidence properly. The last speeches are the most important--make sure you are clearly telling me what evidence is the most important. Overview on the Disads would be great but not necessary. If you are reading a Politics DA--make sure you explain the internal links and constantly compare evidence--don't let me do the work for you when I'm reading the evidence after the debate (you may not like the result). On CP's--have some good offense on the PERM.

Critiques: I am familiarized with critiques, so I like hearing them and it's just easier for the ear and brain. Make sure you are still doing the basics, read a proper link, impact and alternative. Explain how the alternative works as best as you can. Explain why the impact outweighs the Aff's impacts and why they come first. I buy moral arguments, but you need to explain how they impact the way I vote. 

Performance: please have it practiced and know what your doing, and give it its proper argumentative value in every speech. 

Speed: not gonna lie, I can type fast but be clear (also note I have not judged a debate in almost 3 years). 

Be nice. Be aggressive. But don't be overly arrogant.
  