
  Matthew R. Moore

I coached debate for four years and was a competitor in high school for four. I have a preference for policy rounds, but I will listen to whatever arguments you use and try to not insert my own opinions into the round as much as possible. More specifics below:

Topicality: I believe this is a burden affirmatives should meet. I have little sympathy for affs who claim that they don't have to be topical. That said, I don't find myself voting neg on topicality all that often. In most close T debate, I tend to side with the affirmative.

Disadvantages: I love DAs and enjoy a good DA debate. I like politics.

Counterplans: These are great too, especially when combined with DAs to make a great strat. You can run your counterplan however you like. I will also listen to any theory arguments you make, more on that below.

Kritiks: As I said, I'm a policy guy at heart, but I have no problem with teams running kritiks. Make sure you are clearly explaining what it is you are criticizing and how your alternative solves. Also, as much as possible, please avoid the esoteric language that makes some kritiks almost indecipherable. If I can't understand it, I won't vote for it.

Theory: I have a fairly high threshold for theory. I am much more likely to use theory to reject the argument rather than the team. If you want me to reject the team, there had better be a very serious violation and some good arguments as to why I should reject the team.

Speed: I am fine with spreading. Please clearly distinguish between cards. Also, please slow down on your theory and analytics. If I can't flow it, I'm not going to give you the argument. I will say "clear" if I'm having trouble understanding you.

Case: I am used to traditional cases that have plan texts and advantages. If you are doing something different, I need to be clear on what you are advocating. As stated above, you need to be topical.

Cross-x: Please be polite. I will deduct speaker points for those who appear intentionally rude, mean, etc. in cross-x. 

Other notes:
I do not take prep for flashing as long as you don't abuse itI'm not a huge fan of flex prep. Both sides have to agree to use it.I like evidence to be clearly and specifically extended. Simply saying "extend my economy advantage" is insufficient.
  