
  Updated: Berkeley 2013

I disclose if you want me to. Same with speaks. The exception is if you just annihilated a strug in front of his family, then I might be a bit bashful about recounting the carnage in front of them. In that case, do not try and goad me into disclosing.

I've judged a whole bunch of bid tournaments (30?) and both college parliament nationals over the last five years. I have an MA in rhetoric and critical theory and was an engineer before that so if your argument makes sense I will understand it. That said, you still have to conduct the round as if you actually want me to "learn" your case/evidence - you've read it; I have not.

Important: I have a background in public speaking and performance so I am more susceptible than most to a well-executed perceptual debate. Be generous yet fearless in cross-ex and really sell your rebuttal speeches. It matters. (Hint: leaning on phrases like "This is going to be damning" or "My opponent makes a HUGE MISTAKE" are not very compelling.)

Don't spread your opponent out of the round because not everyone went to camp and good debate schools are hard to come by. I don't care how fast you go if your opponent can spread too (ask your opponent) but assume I will hear less than you want me to if you go fast. Call it 20% less. BE VERY CLEAR AND SLIGHTLY SLOWER ON TAGLINES, AUTHORS AND WARRANTS. This makes them very likely to show up on the flow. I will not yell "Clear!" any more than I will yell "I don't quite understand this argument!"

Two of your speeches should end with a numbered list of reasons why you are winning. Negs, both speeches should end this way.

I always prefer creativity, originality and depth of argument over spreading and feverish flow-coverage. I am not afraid to give you speaks below 25, I just rarely see someone that unprepared or rude. The frequency with which 30s are given shocks me.

All that said, I have no agenda. It is YOUR debate. If you are hard-working and quick-thinking I want you to do well! Be polite and argue in a way and for a position that I want to vote for!
  