
  Kent Denver '12
Johns Hopkins '16

Disclaimer: I debated four years in high school on the national circuit but have not debated in the 2.5 years since graduation.

My meta thoughts: Debate what you are good at. Tech over truth. Warrants are probability good. Don't waste CX. Aggression is fine but don't be a jackass.

Most specific thoughts:

Framework: Telling me how to decide the debate will probably benefit you. Ideally this is more than "critical stuff first rawh rawh" but do I prioritize pragmatism, empiricism, realism etc. Even in a case debate do I prioritize your author's qualifications or your explanation?

Topicality: big fan especially if it is well researched and backed up by evidence. One thing is that I have little topic knowledge so if you are going to use acronyms, tell me what they are.

Theory: I genuinely enjoy a well done theory debate and am definitely willing to vote here. However well done doesn't just mean reading blocks at each other but actually answering their specific args.

Case, disads, counterplans: Good times.

Critical stuff: I dig this but don't assume I know the specifics of your argument. Pls explain. Alternatives aren't necessary but I tend to find them helpful when deciding the debate.

Evidence: I will read it if there is a good reason to but this is an oral event so don't assume that I will default to calling all da evidence and sorting through it myself as I am a tired college kid. That said, if you have a good reason for me to do so, I will suck it up and do so.

Points: They will reflect your speaking quality not whether you win or lose. I don't understand people who are resistant to give low point wins.

Other random thoughts: Performance stuff is cool but I don't really get debate bad args (separate from how we debate is bad args) because if it is so bad there are probably other activities for you to participate. Prep time will stop when your flash drive is ejected unless you are clearly still prepping while they are opening the file. Clarity is important. Slow down during analytics so I have time to write. I'll probably flow on paper unless I can't find paper or a pen, so tell me if I'm going to need a new sheet. I'll also time but ideally time yourselves.

If you have other questions ask.
  