
  Hey, if you're reading this I'm probably judging you soon; first things first thanks for looking this up rather than asking me what my paradigm is. Second if you really don't want to read this everything can be summed up in two words, "DO YOU."

How to win in front of me: 

Explain to me why I should vote for you and don't make me do work. You can do this by signposting and raodmapping so that my flow stays as clean as possible. If you don't do this I will try to flow arguments on the right flow but some arguments are bound to get lost so please try stay clean. You can also do this by actually flowing the other team and not just their speech doc. Too often debaters will scream for 5 minutes about a dropped perm when the other team answered it with analytics and those were not flown. Please don't be this team.

Argumentation...

Theory/Topicality:
By default theory and topicality are voters and come aprior unless there is no offense on the flow. I generally love theory debates but like with any judge you have to dedicate the time into it if you would like to win. If you can't speak for 5 minutes about condo in the 2AR then don't go for condo; it's as simple as that. Lastly you don't need to prove in round abuse to win but it REALLY helps and you probably won't win unless you can do this.

Framework:
I feel framework should be argued in almost any debate as I will not do work for a team. Unless the debate is policy aff v da+cp then you should probably be reading framework. Now here I would like to note that Theory, Topicality, and Framework all interact with each other and you as the debater should see this interactions and use them to win. Please view these flows holistically. 

DA/CP:
I am comfortable voting on these as I believe every judge is but I beg you (unless it's a politics debate) please do not just read more cards but explain why you're authors disprove thiers. Not much else to say here besides impact calc plz.

K:
I am a philosophy and political science major so please read whatever you would like as far as literature goes; I have probably read it or debated it at some point so seriously don't be afraid. Now my openness also leaves you with a burden of really understanding the argument you are reading. Please leave the cards and explain the thought process, while I have voted on poorly run K's before those teams never do get high speaker points.

Perms:
Perms are a test of competition unless I am told otherwise do with them as you wish.

Judge Intervention:
So I will only intervene in three instances. First if the 2AR makes new arguments I will ignore them as there is no 3NR. Second I will shadow extend impacts into the 2R's (if you don't know what this means just ignore it). Third I will judge kick conditional arguments despite this I will be upset if you don't make it clear what you're going for. 

Speaks:
What gets you good speaks:Following the flowMaking it easier for me to flowMaking things interestingClear spreadingProductive CX
What hurts your speaks:Being really boringWasting CX or PreptimeBeing rude
  