
  


    
        4 meta-considerations for you

1) I firmly believe debate is a game. 

2) Be clear. I’ll warn you once, after that if I can’t understand it, won’t flow it.

3) Framing is so important- if the 2nr doesn’t take time to frame how I should evaluate the debate and the 2ar does, chances are the aff will be in a much better place to win my ballot.

4) some judges have pre-dispositions regarding certain arguments; I am not one of those judges.
K’s- love em. High theory should be explained well. I tend to evaluate these debates more based upon your explanations of the evidence versus what the ev says (In other words, don’t extend 5 pieces of ev by name and expect me to call for them and connect the dots for you).

T- a good T debate is likely to earn everyone better speaks. 

Disads/CP’s- yes please

Framework- needs a T violation to accompany it. Just saying “topical version of the aff solves” won’t do it for me. You need to tell me what the topical version is or why switch-side solves their offense. These debates have gotten pretty stale as of late.

Performance- Topic education is important. If your performance has nothing to do with the topic, you should not pref me.

Theory- If you plan on going for theory, your round winning arguments ought to be in the 1ar. If I can’t draw a line to it, I won’t evaluate it. For most theory debates I am sympathetic to arg not team. Condo debates are the exceptions.

Impact debates/impact turning the aff and disads- the best debates

How can I get high speaks in front of Mose? Humor, efficiency, direct and relevant cx questions, politeness, passionate speeches, teamwork
How can I get a 26.5 in front of Mose? Prompting your partner non-stop, refusal to answer basic cross-x questions (i.e. status of the cp’s, if you defend the plan or not, etc), poor strategic vision for where to spend time during your speeches. Being rude isn’t that much of a consideration for me. Debate is a competition and if you can trash talk in a creative way, I will actually probably give you higher speaks. I think trash talking is becoming a lost art in our community and I love seeing debaters who are good at it.

    



  