
  I coach debate for a living. I did LD in high school and Moot Court in college at UNT. I have degrees in Political Science, as well as Philosophy and Religion. As such, when referencing philosophies or philosophers, please use their ideas correctly and in context. 


-Speak clearly. 
-give me clash, I prefer topical arguments to rhetorical tricks.
-I don't mind progressive debate. However, arguments need to genuinely add something to the round, not be an excuse to avoid topical debate. 
-Theory: if a debater can clearly articulate a legitimate theory arguement, there is likely room for a theory debate. However, while you are welcome to talk to me about ROB and other theory arguments, don't tell me how I WILL vote, simply tell me how I SHOULD vote. 
-Spreading: (from NSDA bylaws) "Rapid-fire delivery, commonly called “spread delivery,” is considered antithetical to the purpose and intent of this event." However, I recognize that circuit and progressive debate equals spreading. So, spreading is fine as long as both competitors are ok with it. 
-There is a big difference between spreading clearly and slurring your words and calling it spreading. If you cannot spread and still PRONOUNCE EACH WORD, don't spread. And do not try to con me. I coach debate for a living. If I can't understand you, you are not speaking clearly. 

-Cards are not a substitute for analysis and persuasion. Please don't make your whole case just reading other people's words. I vote off of arguments that are clearly articulated. Even if you extend an argument, it's meaningless if your initial delivery was incoherent. 
-Nazis equal Nazis. If you are going to link to Nazis or the Holocaust, do so carefully and in context. Hyperbolic assertions and Nazi equivocations are offensive.

-It's amazing how many terms/abbreviations appear only in LD debate. Even more specifically, how many appear almost exclusively on the LD reddit and in the halls of circuit tournaments. I know most of these terms. However, if your opponent doesn't know a specific abbreviation, please tell them the complete term without being haughty.



Likes


1. Voting issues
2. Politeness
3. Weighing arguments
4. Clarity (both in speaking and in presentation and organization of arguments)
5. Constructives that are topical and center on substantive positions 
6. Voting issues
7. Voting issues
8. moving on in CX once it becomes clear your opponent is not going to say what you want them to. 
9. knowledgable application of philosophy that conveys understanding of the philosopher, not an isolated part of their philosophy. 


Dislikes

1. Arrogance
2. Rudeness
3. Obfuscation
4. making your opponent feel lesser simply because they are not familiar with an aspect of circuit debate. 
5. both sides attempting to win by simply perming the other side's case. 
6. telling me "you're going to vote...." 
7. Lack of organization in the constructive or rebuttals
8. Just yelling out "turn" and not explaining why something is a turn. 
9. Telling me to flow something across or extend an argument without telling me why I should. 
10. Failure to provide voting issues or clear crystallization
11. Not providing voting issues
12. Lack of voting issues

P.S. give me voting issues
 
  