
  Mueller, Austin
School Affiliation: Foothill HS (NV), UNLV (NV)
Rounds judged on the topic: 15+
Number of years of policy experience: 5

NDCA/TOC 2009 Philosophy
I would consider myself to be as tab as they come. I will vote on anything you say as long as its justified.

Procedurals/T
Run them. I think competing interps are good. Potential abuse is probably not a voter. If you K the T though, you need to explain it well. I wont reject that argument but i do have a higher threshold for it.

CP's
Run any Cp you like and a many as you like. (IF YOU HYPOTEST YOU BETTER JUSTIFY IT WELL) it just comes down to a theory level. I will vote on theory and any theory you wanna say as long as its explained well. I also eir aff on multiple conditional worlds bad. That doesnt mean dont run them, but again have a defense ready. Explain Theory like a disad, show the direction of abuse, and impact it. Not like what youll do if you lose but rather what the abuse has done to the debate.

The K
I am very familar with a plethora of krtikal literature but that doesnt mean ill assume to know what youre saying. I also tend to be vey old school with the K. Give it a framework and show why the stuff you talk about is more important. Without an alternate framework to evaluate the impacts, plan or alternative i will default as a rational policy maker. I ran the K inhigh school and run it in college, will vote on any number of strategies as long as explained.

DA's
I think there a great idea. explain impact calcs and we'll be ok.

Performance
Dont be lazy. Dont run some weird ag because it sounds cool... even though i definatley enjoy the performance aspect of debate. Explain what it is my ballot does and the argument and ill vote on anything.

Aff case Structure
Like big stick aff's. Like little stick affs with built in defense and K adv's. I dont care, its your debate im just here to decide who did a better job.

Speaker points im pretty liberal with speaks and i tend to sty in the 27 range for and average debate. If you get lower than a 26 its because a) you said something really bad. b) you debated like billiy madison or c) you cheated.
  