
  
Framework: I think these debates are sometimes phrased to be intentionally confusing and frequently very blippy. Make sure you not only justify your arguments in the framework but explain what they mean (like if your framework means counterplans don’t negate the resolution then say that in the 1AC not the 2AR). I prefer substance debate over framework debates for the most part.
Value/Criterion: typically very important to me. When responding to your opponents criterion it’s not sufficient to say “not weighable” etc. you have to impact that and explain why that’s a necessary component of a criterion. I am fine with the debaters agreeing on a standard.
Speed: I can probably flow you but I think that it would be nice if it remained proportional. If you can go really fast but your opponent isn’t capable of going that fast than you should slow down. I know this is subjective but it’s something that I would like you to try to do. If it is a fast round it will probably benefit you to slow down when comparing arguments.
Crystallization: Love it. If you don’t number/weigh/compare your voting issues than you probably won’t be happy with my decision so you should save time at the end of your last speeches to crystallize.
Procedurals: I have a high threshold for topicality - I’m not big into voting on potential abuse. But I won’t get mad/punish you for running it.
Kritiques: don’t really like them - the main reason is because the alternative usually doesn’t solve. I don’t think that my ballot can really solve statism all that well so I am very receptive to “alternative vagueness or alt. doesn’t solve” arguments. In terms of pragmatic K’s on gendered language/speed/topicality I think these are really interesting but must be really well developed.
Counterplans: I like counterplans but I also like counterplan theory. I typically believe the perm is a test of competition unless you tell me otherwise and I think perm theory needs to be in the 1NC if the negative is planning on talking about it at all.
Other: I think you need to be nice to your opponent. I will dock your speaks if you are mean.
If you have any specific questions I would be happy to answer them before the round.
  