
  Hi, I'm THE Madhukar Muralidhara I used to debate for Leland High School with Caton Lu (shoutout to young caton)
I'm a first year out so if I accidentally intervene, I'm sorry, I'll be trying my best not to.
Experience-wise I did PF freshman/senior year and Lincoln Douglas sophomore/junior year. In my opinion I was an above average debater (I obtained bids at ASU and Stanford reached outs at Berkeley and Golden Desert and was the first alternate for Nationals)

I'm pretty familiar with theory so as long as you have a clear shell I should be fine. HOWEVER, theory should only be a last case resort if your opponent is truly being abusive (i.e. evidence ethics or general bad debate practice), if you are running frivolous theory and your opponent calls you out on it I will most likely not evaluate your argument.

Intros are cool, if you have a funny intro that makes me laugh I'll be friendly with your speaker points; if you make me cringe, I'll be harsh. Don't make me cringe. The more entertaining you are, the more I'll like you, so try not to be another boring robot with your arguments (don't overdo it). Debate is going to be the single most important experience of your entire life, often your peak, so try to have fun with it.

On to actual arguments, as long as you're not making some stupid arguments like 'death is good' or 'x race should die' you'll be fine. If you're running a stupid argument then you probably won't do well anyways so it's not in your best interest to do so.

Anything brought up in Final focus should have been brought up in summary, if it isn't then I'm not going to vote for you.

Evidence: If there is any reason for me to believe that you are being abusive with your evidence I WILL drop you. Examples of abusiveness include but are not limited to: Purposefully miscutting/citing a majority of cards so that your opponent can't point it all out, making up evidence, misquoting your opponent's evidence to gain an advantage etc. I have dealt with every single one of the aforementioned when I did debate, it's annoying as hell.

Swearing is okay. Don't hate on the warriors. Language K's are dumb. Just try to make the round fun in all honesty, judging sucks and if something sucks than I might tune out which will suck for you guys.

At the end of the day, if you guys don't agree with my decision I will respect that, I disagreed with a lot of judges' decisions when I did debate. However, I will ask that you respect my decision as well and try to think from my perspective. Looking back on debate in high school, my partner and I got salty as after every round we lost and that prevented us from getting better. If Draymond Green can be happy that the Warriors blew a 24 point lead and use it for improvement, you can do the same for debate.
  