
  Background: 4 years LD at Brophy College Prep in Phoenix, AZ
Graduated 2016

krishnamuruganaz@gmail.com for your email chains

I've probably forgot some things. Ask me before the round if you have questions.

If you read the bold, you have the tl;dr

First things first,
Please don't shake my hand. Either I'm sick or you're sick. Just don't.

Basic Stuff
I'd like to think I'm tabula rasa, but everyone thinks they are. I'll try to vote off the flow. I don't really want to vote off of any bias but when you don't weigh anything, then I don't really have much else to go off of. Simply put, don't make me do work, please. I'm lazy and it's probably not going to help you. Weigh, make clear extensions, and impact back to framework. Also, have warrants. Cards that don't have warrants will not win my vote.

I like framework debate. It's how I view your impacts.

Read whatever you want, but try to explain things well. I'm pretty good at understanding things, but don't just assume I know everything. As for speed, I used to be able to keep up and flow pretty well but it's also been a while since I've really cared. I have no reason to actually get better, so it might be better if you went like 70-80% of your speed. If you're clear, you'll be fine. Slow down on tags and author. That being said, I might be overestimating my ability. Either way, if I missed some stuff, I'll probably ask for your case, or ideally I'd have a speech doc in front of me. I'll generally get pretty much everything, plus I'll glean some stuff from CX if I have to.

Quick note: Don't be an asshole.

Quick note 2: If you want to read something weird or funny or stupid, I'll probably love it. Seriously, if you're having fun, I'll have fun!

Cross X
I'll pay attention, but not as much as I would a regular speech. That being said, I'll likely note any concessions and important things. Make sure to reference them in your speech.

Don't be the person that just stops asking questions and just uses it as prep. It'll make me very unhappy. At least ask a random question to get your opponent to ramble while you do it. I literally just want someone to talk during CX.

Theory
I'll vote on theory, but it's got to pass a bullshit meter. That's about the simplest I've got. If you really like theory debates, or you want to check abuse, read theory. I expect you to check your interp in CX.

I default to reasonability and RVIs (if you win competing interps obviously)

Also, important note SLOW DOWN ON YOUR INTERPS.

Kritiks
I like Ks. I enjoyed kritikal debate when I did it. Given that I haven't looked at a K in a while, you might want to explain things really well, but that's just good advice for Ks in general. Don't assume I know your author/lit. Also, explicitly tell me how your opponent links. I like weird arguments. Please just give me a framework, role of the ballot (if it's necessary) and a solvency advocate for your alternative.

Presumption
Presumption is dumb. Don't try to win off of presumption. I presume flip a coin. Don't argue over who gets presumption. 

Tricks
Don't read them. Never liked them. Like, there's a huge bullshit meter here you have to pass. Chances are, I won't like it.

Etiquette
Don't really care whether you sit or stand. I stood mostly because one of my coaches drilled into my head that FDR stood when he spoke. I think it's more persuasive and easier to spread if you stand. Do whatever you want though. I don't vote off of who talks prettiest.

If you're going to flash cases, do it before you speak. I don't time it as part of prep, but it shouldn't take longer than 30 seconds to flash someone your case.

Flex prep is ok. I made use of it alot. Probably not going to pay attention but you can reference concessions in it like you would reference cx concessions.

Novice Debaters (Ignore this if you're varsity, or don't if you want)
I'm giving you your own special heading mostly because I seem to judge these too. I'm going to be giving you critiques after the round. You can choose not to care but it'd make me feel better if you wrote what I'm saying down and give me the semblance that you're listening to me. I mean, it won't hurt you in any way if you don't, because I'll have probably submitted the ballot, but it'd be nice.

The above rules also apply to you. That being said, be considerate of your opponent. If your opponent has no clue what any of this means and you read this stuff just so they'll have no idea what to do, I'm not going to like you. It's no fun if one person has no idea what's going on in a two person debate. Ideally, I just want y'all to have fun. I'll still probably vote for you because I vote off the flow, but I'll be annoyed about it.
  