
  I debated LD for three years and PF for one at Clear Springs High School. I now study at the University of Chicago.

Pref Shortcut:
Ks: 1
Performance: 1
High Theory: 1-2
LARP: 2
Tricks: 2
Stock Oppression: 1-2
Framework: 4-strike
Theory: strike

Speed
I have not debated in 2 years. I am good with speed and will almost definitely understand a clear spread, but don't start 100% and emphasize tag lines.I prefer fast debates, but even more, I prefer understanding what you mean (seriously, know your limits).
Kritiks
These are my favorite debates when done well and a literal hell to sit through when done poorly; like if you choose to read a backfile, know what it says, the implications, and at the very least, pretend to care about what you're reading.If your K needs topic specific links, please please please have them.Please try not to make it devolve into Oppression Olympics, if it does I will vote off whoever was the least irritating.
Theory
Theory is rarely necessary, but if it becomes necessary I will evaluate.I am extremely hesitant to vote on theory unless there has been undeniable abuse ie your opponent read 4 PICs and 12 a prioris (although they'd already probably lose with that strat).I am definitely biased in favor of the K outweighing fairness/education/fun/whatever new theory voters people are reading, but if you prove to me otherwise, fuck I guess I believe you.
Tricks
Definitely was my go to in high school.Don't be too much of a dick, I prefer substantial debate, but one or two can make for a little fun.
LARP
Yeah sure, why not, any break I can get from Trump's America is good tbh.
Framework
Don't read anything other than structural violence, util, or K framing. "Intent-based" frameworks are not real.Seriously, Kant is a racist and Aristotle literally justifies slavery.
Extra
Fine with stock or progressive, just debate well and explain your fucking argument. I cannot stress this enough.Please use trigger warnings if you want to bring up anything that could be seen as offensive, this is supposed to not be an exclusionary activity. If you make it one, I promise, your speaks will suffer.That being said, use whatever arguments make you feel comfortableI'm an Environmental Studies and Law, Letters and Society major. If you bring up anything about the law, the environment, or technology, I will probably love you.
Ask any questions you have in round. I give high speaks; have fun and be yourself as long as you're not a total dick.

Good luck, and don't fuck it up.
  