
  I debated for four years for the Hockaday School (TX) and qualified to the TOC my junior and senior year with a career total of 7 bids. I am currently coaching for Immaculate Heart (CA). 

General: 
Speed is fine but please be clear. I will also yell clear, slow, etc 3 times. 
Please slow down (I mean to conversational speed) for card names, theory/T interps, and plan/CP/alt texts. If I don't know what your advocacy or interpretation is because you didn't slow down for it, its going to make it a lot harder for me to vote for you. 
Warrant / make good arguments. Also, number your spikes and stuff if you want to ensure that I catch it. 
Make extensions with clear claim, warrants and impacts. Even if it is a dropped argument, you still need to extend it if you want me to vote for you. 
Generally, just run whatever you like to debate. I will vote on pretty much everything as long as it is justified and clearly explained to me. 
If you are being extremely rude, racist, sexist or offensive in round, I will drop you as well as dock your speaks. 

Framework:
I ran a lot of philosophical positions and really like framework debate so I love to see well-warranted frameworks and good fw comparison. Because of this, I am pretty familiar with analytic philosophy so you can really run whatever you want. That being said, if you don't really fw debate that is fine too, don't try to just because of me. 

Policy arguments: 
I'm fine with any policy-style argument that you want to run. Do good weighing/evidence comparison and please slow down for your advocacy text. 

Critical Arguments: 
I will vote on Ks if I understand them. That being said, K lit is very unfamiliar to me and I generally think that most of it is unwarranted, so you will need to be very clear explaining what your argument is, what the warrant is and how it functions. I prefer Ks that clearly address the topic and are highly substantive, not ridiculous arguments that only have the strategic purpose of confusing your opponent. 

Theory/Topicality: 
I will default to drop the argument, competing interps and RVIs unless an argument is made otherwise. 
Please structure your shells clearly. Weigh your theory arguments, especially when there are multiple shells in the round.
I love intelligent semantic I-meets, philosophy used in theory, and grammar arguments. 
I have a lower threshold for responses to theory shells that aren't as substantive such as AFC, must read end quote, etc. However, I will still vote on these types of shells if you are winning them so don't think that this means you can't run them. I will not vote on disclosure theory, flash theory, or theory shells where you ask them to defend something and then run theory on them for defending it. 
Please be clear in explaining your arguments - I don't like theory blips so if thats your strategy it probably won't pan out well for you. 

Speaks: 
I will give higher speaks for:
Being strategic Making smart, nuanced argumentsBeing clearBeing considerate towards inexperienced debaters and making the round educational for themGood framework debates Quality evidence comparison and weighing
I will give lower Speaks for:
Not extending argumentsBeing rude to your opponentBeing unclearBeing mean towards inexperienced debatersUsing “dirty tricks” including but are not limited to making your case unreadable (e.g. using size 8 font, formatting your analytics as one continuous paragraph of text), stealing prep time, etc.

Feel free to ask me any other questions you have before round!
 
  