
  I find myself judging LD most often. I only ever competed in LD once, my freshman year of high school--probably going 1-5.

Most of my HS debate experience is in Parli and PF. I competed more and did markedly better than 1-5 in each.

My real baby in high school was extemp, but I only get those ballots once in a never.

But don't be alarmed, debaters angry with the prevalence of lay and flay judges. I am competent in flowing, understand more theory than my participation in P/PF suggests, and have had enough exposure to debate and academic subjects related to debate comprehend the more colorful things folks try to pull off in rounds.

That said, some one-off notes:
--I'm not the best with speed--my flowing ability is competent to a point.
--Don't assume I know something the first time you say it just because it's common debate tech, always give at least a one sentence explanation the first time you do it. Then refer to it as an acronym or abbreviated word.
--I'm very amenable to interesting uses of debate.
--I'm not persuaded more by 3 responses to contention one, 5 responses to contention one, or 28 responses to contention one. I prefer one well developed, carefully articulated response to a single argument, with maybe one even-if response to follow. Still better if you can give overviews or group responses. It's not a rebuttal arms-race.
--I'm not going to do something on my flow unless you tell me to do it.
--Some things I like in debate: heavy framework and resolution analysis, comparing worlds, overviews

Unless persuaded otherwise, I'll evaluate the round by deciding which framework won, then evaluate the remaining arguments against this framework.

Speaks start around 27.5 for everyone.
I bump you up in a mental tally in each speech on the basis of:
(1) Effective clash and rebuttal
(2) Clarity and organization (Label-summarize-respond, people.)
(3) Delivery
I bring you down in a mental tally in each speech on the basis of:
(1) Rudeness. Don't be an asshole.
(2) Poor articulation (which is not the same as bad delivery)

But really, let's talk about extemp.
  