
  Debating Experience: I was a Public Forum debater at Millard North High School for 3 years. I've debated on the Nebraska local circuit for those three years. I got into the National Circuit my junior year, getting two bids that year. I attended the Tournament of Champions that year. My senior year had me at several nat circuit and Nebraska tournaments. My second semester also had me getting involved in Congress. I got 5th in House 1 of Nat Quals and I broke into Supercongress at State.

Paradigm:

Speed: At your own risk. I used to speak somewhat fast in debates, but I can't flow very fast. Heavily emphasize your cites.

Argumentation: I'll follow most lines of argumentation. I'm okay with somewhat blippy arguments. However, if your arguments rely on obscene or offensive grounds, I'll either dock you several speaker points or outright drop you, depending on the severity. I am a pretty expressive person, so you'll be able to tell whether I am convinced by an argument or not. Explain everything thoroughly. Make sure I don't have anything to be subjective about by explaining exactly why I have to vote for you. I most likely won't have read up on the topic so this is very important.

Framework: The framework debate is fine, but you have to give me a reason why your's matters. If I don't hear a reason from either side, I'll default to my own standards.

Evidence: I'll most likely call some piece of evidence at the end of the round, so make sure you have it. When I do call evidence and see that it's not correct or something is wrong with it, I won't hold that against you unless the other team calls it in terms of the voters. Speaks will suffer however.

Rebuttal: 2nd team needs to rebuild within their rebuttal. 

Summary: Don't give me a complete line by line. You need to start funnelling your arguments down and boiling them down to the essentials. Don't give new arguments unless you are responding to a new argument made in a previous speech. You may introduce new evidence but it should be very important for it to be considered.

Final Focus: Same as summary but funnel it down even more. No new arguments or evidence. 

Cross-ex: Don't make it into a yelling contest. Try to keep questions concise unless absolutely necessary. If your opponent asks for a question and you're trying to make a multi-part question, let them ask their question first and get back to it later. 

Post-rounding: I'm open to questions after the round, pretty much about anything. However, you shouldn't try to convince me about the debate and try to sway my decision. I'll anyways have sent the ballot out before then. 

Feel free to ask me questions about anything before round!
  