
  Name: Tony Nation
School: Kapaun Mt. Carmel (Wichita, KS)
Experience: 4 years High School, 3 and some change in college with 15 years coaching/judging

About me and debate: I love the activity and I love how it’s grown in leaps and bounds since I started way back in the 90’s. I think that we have grown as an activity and I hope it keeps going that way. When it comes to me as your critic, I’m open for anything you want to say as long as you defend it. I can’t think of any argument that it isn’t possible to win with. The reason for this is I come into any round with a completely blank slate (save one or two things that I’ll talk about in a minute.) It’s your success and failure that rides on your argument choice, how you present it and how you argue it. I have voted on an argument or two that is considered “taboo” in my lifetime. I’m fine with you going fast. Just remember that if you want me to be able to reference it at the end of the debate, it better be on my flow. If you have ten responses that are three words long, it’s best that they take more than two seconds each because I have to write/type them. Be clear and hopefully funny. Now down to a few specific things.

What I don’t like:

New in the 2’s aren’t the best idea with me. I want you to have some in depth debate. So a new disad/counterplan/kritik probably isn’t the best idea when I’m in the back of the room. Now sometimes, it’s necessary to bring up a new argument in the 2’s. Maybe there was some sexist language in the 2AC/1NC or they gave you a really good reason to make an argument. That’s ok because it’s good strategy. But don’t read your disad in the 2NC because you forgot it. If you do, the 1AR knows from reading this that they better straight turn it.Two ships passing in the night: What I mean from this is there better be clash. If your opponent makes an argument, ANSWER IT! Don’t just make an argument of your own. I don’t know how many times I’ve seen a negative team read a ton of cards and the affirmative just comes up and extends their own with the negative responding by extending their four cards. That is not clash. Negative teams who forget there’s supposed to be a case debate. I flow the 1AC for a reason and it’s not just to draw arrows from one end of the page to the other.Plan plan.Teams who forget that argument = claim + warrant.
Ok, now on to questions you may have about specific argument types:

Topicality: I vote on T. That being said, there have been some affirmatives that have lost the top level of the debate but convinced me topicality isn’t a voting issue. Abuse, ground, fairness etc. can all be compelling arguments to me, so can reverse voters or a lack of all words being defined. Remember, it’s your debate, make the arguments you want to make.

Counterplans: Love em, ran em, lost to em, won with em. The one thing I’m having trouble coming to grips with is advantage counterplans. To me, running an advantage counterplan says to me that you don’t have anything to say on the advantage and you happen to have either another case with a solvency card for it or you have deep backfiles. That’s not to say I won’t vote for someone who goes for them, but you better tell me why I should.

Critical Arguments: Critical arguments are good. They teach us many things. However, unless the other team fails to mention it, I would really like to know what the alternative is. If technology is inherently bad, why should denounce it.

Case Debate: Case is there for a reason. Unless a negative has a conceded extinction impact and the affirmative doesn’t get that far, then you probably better spend time on the case. 

A few other notes: Performing is ok. Counter-intuitive arguments are ok. I don’t care who speaks during cross-ex. Don’t abuse prep time and you won’t hear a word from me about it. I look at evidence some times, especially if there’s arguments made against it and it’s an important piece. You don’t have to shake my hand and please don’t call me “judge.” If you have to, use my name.

This is your time, your round and your success that’s in the balance. Have fun doing it.
  