
  Lindsey Negaard
School Affiliation: Bettendorf
Schools Attended: Bettendorf High School

As a brief introduction, I competed in Lincoln-Douglass debate for three years in high school and have judged on a regular basis for the last four years. I predominantly have experience in Iowa although I’ve competed and/or judged in California and Illinois.

As far as how I come to my decision, I’m fairly open to argumentation in the round. If you want me to vote on arguments impacted to a traditional standards structure, then make those arguments and tell me why I should vote that way. If you want me to vote on a critique, etc then make those arguments and tell me why I should vote that way. The most important thing for a debater to do in the round is use a consistent decision calculus and framework.

That being said, specifically relating to theory arguments – in general I don’t care for them as I think they are misused, not well explained and tend to spiral out of control (i.e. one theory argument spawns five responses, etc). However, if a theory argument is necessary or appropriate in the round, feel free to use one – just make sure it’s clear, concise, and well explained.

As far as speed, I can handle speed if necessary; however, I do believe that persuasion and speaking are an important part of Lincoln-Douglass Debate and so if speed causes presentation problems (lack of clarity, etc) then that will be reflected in your speaking points. 

Regarding speaker points, my average is probably in the 26 range; however I will use the full 2o to 30 spectrum, reserving the 20-23 range for speakers who are rude, mean, or inappropriate. If I believe a speaker is exceptionally inappropriate (i.e. cursing in round, excessive ad hominem attacks on one’s opponent, etc) I will go below 20. Although I prefer debaters to stand and have a professional appearance, usually those things will not influence speaker points.

I’ve tried to hit some of the high points of my paradigm; however, I’m always open for questions before a round (or during the round if necessary) and I’d be happy to clear up any of the above or answer any other questions.
  