
  i've had one foot stuck in the door of debate for six years too many; rhetoric bores me. i'm playing your game, so i ask that you play mine, which is honesty and kindness. i still believe, despite the vast amount of empirical evidence to the contrary, that debate rounds can be fun.

click here to read the long version(hide)
LD, mcclintock high school, 2010-2014 LD coach, brophy college prep / southwest speech and debate institute, 2014-
this time last year i embraced the label "k hack" - now that i've actually judged rounds, i don't anymore. just make smart arguments that you like.
i understand LD and policy conventions. i will vote on almost anything. don't be an asshole. i don't want to have to use my "philosophies" but if you don't tell me how to evaluate stuff, these are the assumptions i use:
1. this activity is for everyone. i don't think you should ever change your strategy, you should just learn how to explain it in whatever terms you have to (i.e. if your opponent isn't familiar with your position). adapting to your opponent and offering articulate explanations during prep/cx earn higher speaks. the only k debaters who don't read their ks for lay judges are the bad k debaters
2. i default to evaluating pre-fiat kritik impacts before theory. why do i get so many questions about this one? a good k describes the reality in which we conceive of fairness/education, and often theory is a reactionary response to something unfamiliar. this doesn't mean you shouldn't run theory, it just means you need good warrants.
3. i don't flow cx and i only pay attention if i'm confused about something
4. terminal defense exists because debaters wouldn't make defensive arguments if it didn't
5. check theory interps early. make an attempt to prevent abuse from happening.
6. i take paragraph theory seriously. competing interps is elitist. sorry! ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
7. i didn't have the money nor did i have the interest to travel every weekend in high school so i can't flow really fast theory debate, especially with heavy jargon. slowing down for tags and important analysis is both good for my flow and good for debate.
and, in the words of my friend samir reddy,
I have no idea how this activity sustains itself. Like unreasonable DA scenarios and speaking at 400 words per minute aside, I have no idea how I have convinced myself as a human being that the most valuable thing I can be doing with my time is listening to debaters talk about the intricate technical aspects of high-school debate using literally made up terms like NIBs and dispositionality. If you are reading theory, you better be willing to marry your theory shell if I asked you to do so. You should impact your arguments on the theory level to a model of debate. I literally don't care if theory doesn't actually change norms, or if reading theory for strategic purposes is good for critical thinking. If the best argument you have for why utilitarianism should be the ethical framework is that in the real world policymakers use util-please consider your life choices up to this point. Also, I think there is diminishing marginal utility in arguing about what is the most fair and most educational way to debate. Like if your interpretation is 5 units more educational, but we just spent 45 minutes talking about ground, I can safely say that those 5 units of education are long gone. If the thought that is in your head right now is that lawyers argue about the rules all the time I hate you. I know it's fun to think about theory; I know it's strategic, but I just can't.
have fun, be nice!
  