
  Nelson, Jack
 Speech and Debate Coach/Teacher at Timberview HS, Mansfield ISD

The Short Verson
 New CoachFamiliar with the topicUnder the delusion that I am reasonably intelligent enough to understand most argumentsNeed a little help on more complex K'sLove variety in cases and multiple argumentsAdverse to T unless there is very clear abuseNeed reduced speedExpect good roadmaps and clear signposts throughout the roundDisike distracting mannerisms (e.g. rocking, saying "like" dozens of times, speaking very softly or in a "squeaky" voice)Loathe Ad Hom attacks, "f-bombs" or "vulgar" language (even in evidence), excessive partner interferrence (regularly prompting/interrupting),Assign Speaker Points based on argumentation, but also heavily weigh esoteric things like professionalism, dress, mannerisms, volume, speed, clarity, partner cooperation and judge adaptationsNot afraid of giving top "speaks," but the speaker has to earn it
The Longer Version
 
Topicality - I prefer a wide number of cases in debate, therefore I would advise against going for T unless the AFF is presenting some really wacked-out argument. I consider T to be a priori. T violations are valid only if you prove the topic is grossly unfair for education. If you are reasonably topical, you get access to all your impacts and my decision is then based on all the other arguments.

Performance - I am fine with a reasonable performance if it is related to "...substantially increase [USFG's] public health assistance to Sub-Saharan Africa." I am not interested in hearing a "theater" performance about how great theater is or other non-topical args.

Kritiks - I am fine with and even enjoy K's, but I am relatively new to debate, so I may not understand all your deep Foucault args or Agamben intricacies without real-world, simplified explaination. I haven't had the time to read extinsively in these areas, so if you don't communicate it clearly, you will lose me and will lose the argument regardless how well you think you stated it.

Perms - Multiple perms are OK, but don't go off the deep end with them. While I understand the concept of Intrinsic and Severence Perms and don't mind hearing them, take it a little slower.

Background / Personal History
 
New coach, but attended 2007 UNT 4-Week camp plus 2007 Championship Debate Group 1-Week camp
(so I am up-to-speed with this year's topic and most debate terminology and argumentation)
BA in Speech Communication / Business Communication at Stephen F. Austin State University, TX
1983 HS CX & LD Debater, Nacogdoches HS (debate exposure lapsed from 1984 until 2006)
Former nationwide speaker for six years
Corporate trainer for four years
Former business owner (five companies)
Public school teacher (computers and technology) for five years
  