
  UPDATED FOR OCTOBER 30-31 UNT TOURNAMENT

Brief introduction, I debated at Moore High School for four years as a 2A on the Oklahoma circuit. We typically ran policy affirmatives and shotgun neg strats. After highschool, I was an assistant coach for Moore for another year, and have taken a year hiatus from debate to focus on my schoolwork. This tournament will be the first time I have judged a debate since then. In a nutshell, I would call myself a policy tab judge, but I have and will vote on the kritik. Here is how I evaluate most common arguments.

POLICY OFF CASE:

1. Disadvantages: Good old bread and butter argument. Specific links are good, and be sure to weigh the impact against the case impacts.

2. Case: Offense and defense is great, and case arguments are often underutilized to my taste.

3. Counterplans: I like them, but keep them reasonable. Counterplan theory is also fine, and I default to the flow when evaluating it. 

THEORY/FRAMEWORK:

I like well articulated theory and framework debates. I am unlikely to vote on gut checks, and will default to the flow for theory and framework debates. Make sure the flow is impacted out with clear explanations of abuse. I tend to default to competing interpretations, but have voted on reasonability.

KRITIK/KRITIKAL AFF:

I have been advised by certain people (you know who you are) that I have been unclear on my position on the kritik. I will try to be as transparent as possible, in order to avoid confusion. I will vote on the kritik, but I am no authority on the literature. If you are a team that wants to go for one, be sure to have the argument impacted out so that I know exactly what I am voting on. I also need to know what the role of my ballot is and links to the affirmative need to be clearly articulated. Buzzwords and other jargon may have to be explained, and debate as if I have no knowledge on what you are talking about. This will likely not be the case, but it will help me greatly. Any team that can follow this guide will have no problem with me signing the ballot.

PERFORMANCE:

I will try my best, but I have virtually no idea how to judge these debates. Follow the above guidelines to see how my thought process works.

If anyone has any questions, please ask me before the round. I will be happy to explain anything that is unclear. I will also give an RFD (tournament and time permitting), and i encourage you to ask questions here as well.
  