
  Experience: I competed in policy debate for four years for Rowland Hall where I qualified to the TOC and NFL Nationals. I was a lab leader at a SCFI this summer, so I have some experience on the topic, but be sure to explain any acronyms or jargon.

Big Picture: 
I prefer focused debates that encourage clash. Impact every argument.I value clarity over speed.
Theory: I enjoy a good theory debate, but I will only vote on theory if it is well impacted. Tell me how the other team hurts portable skills we take away from debate. “Everyone leaves the activity” is not a sufficient impact unless you tell me why the skills we learn from debating are good. A good theory debate should also involve a lot of clash; don’t just read blocks at each other.

Topicality: I tend to error aff on T debates unless the neg contextualizes their argument in terms of the aff and does specific impact analysis. Describe what types of cases are included under your interpretation and how these are different from what the aff allows. Like in a theory debate, tell me how your interpretation increases the portable skills we take away from the debate. 

Framework: Framework is a great way to make many of your opponent’s arguments irrelevant, but, once again, it needs to be well impacted. Tell me why prioritizing or excluding a viewpoint has impacts outside of the debate.

K’s: I’ll listen to generic K’s, but K’s specific to the aff are much better. At the very least, make specific link analysis in context of the affirmative. Also make sure your K tells a coherent story. Explain how the alternative resolves the links. Elaborate on terms and concepts unique to your K that I may not have heard before. 

K affs: I prefer K affs with some sort of plan text or advocacy statement, but I’m flexible. Please make your aff relevant to the topic, or else you should have a very good reason why the aff should not be held to that standard.

CP’s: If you run a consult CP, condition CP, or word PIC, you’ll be held to a higher standard on theory. Otherwise, run whatever you want, the more specific to the aff the better.

DA’s: Don’t be afraid to make the DA a large part of your strategy. Once again, aff specific is best.
  