
  I competed CX throughout high school and debated at Nationals. I've coached CX for 2 years (my teams breaking at TOC and winning state), and judged over 8 years of CX (including TOC and Nationals break rounds).

Overall: I see that the debaters define the round (including the rules) while in it. You have to tell me where to vote and why. I love when debaters play with the rules of the game, and will vote for anything as long as you back it up with solid arguments. Make sure you spend time on how arguments should frame my evaluation of the round as a whole, beyond just impact analysis. I prefer quality of arguments rather than quantity; so if you are neg and run 8 off just for the spread, I'll dock speaks--to clarify, I'm totally fine with 8 off, I just want to see good a good strategy with that and a cohesive argument. If it's not on my flow, I'm not voting for it. I'm good with speed, but make sure you number your arguments or say "NEXT" so you don't mess up my flow. I want to hear the story behind your arguments, including the story behind the aff, so make sure to explain your internal links on the adv or neg arg so I can give you my vote there. Don't just throw cards at me and expect me to make the arguments for you, because that won't happen. If it's not on the flow, I can't count it. 
Flashing: I'll stop timing you the second you pull your flashdrive out to give to the other team. Make sure you're courteous in flashing cards. 

Speaker Points: Being at each other's throats in CX will dock you big. You can be courteous while still being competitive, and saying things like: "This is my CX, let me ask the questions" or some other idiotic notions will dock points. If you don't think you need to use all your prep time or speech time, then don't. Believe me, I don't want to sit there listening to minutes of pointless arguments if you can win the debate in 4 minutes rather than 8, and I'll reward your speaks for being awesome with your time. That all comes down to trusting yourself. 
Topicality: As an English grad, I love seeing a good T debate. If neg wants to win the T, they have to spend the time on it. Use it as a time suck if you want; I don't care unless the Aff brings it out in the debate with solid arguments that work with their overall strategy. 

Disads/C/P: Make sure you explain why you outweigh if it comes down to an Avd and DA debate. I love a solid C/P strategy. If you want to go for big impacts, back sure you do the internal story.

K: I LOVE seeing a good K debate -- emphasis on good. If you don't know the theory behind the K, or run the K poorly, and the other team can exploit that and win my ballot. I want you to spend time on the story as a whole, and not just what each card is saying, especially if it's a mindset K. Every point of the K is critical, and the Neg needs to make sure they have a strong link or the aff's no link arguments will o/w (if they are solid). 
  