
  I've been the coach at Caddo since 2001-2002.  I had no debate experience in high school or college, but I have gotten a pretty good background in the activity thanks to the kind assistance of Caddo alumni and the national coaching community.

I don't enjoy listening to sloppy T-debates, and I will not vote you up on it unless you make consistent arguments in every speech as to how their violation impacts the debate.  Blippy or nonintelligible shells that suddenly morph into "the most important argument in the round" in your 1NR will not find me responsive.  Intelligent give and take and creative interpretations/kritiks of T/reasons to vote ARE worth your time, however.  Aff teams that don't give adequate explanation of their we meets, or counter interpretations CAN lose on T--give it the respect it deserves.

I'm not biased toward fiat frameworks, but will vote either way in a kritical debate.  If you are going for the K, spend plenty of time explaining how your alternative competes with the plan.  Know your framework, and stake your claim EARLY, so we get good analysis on why I should prefer it to the world of the plan.  

 I've only had the pleasure of a very few performance debates, but would love to hear one executed intelligently.  As the coach at Caddo, I've seen quite a few "creative" CP strategies, and a well-impacted theory round is no problem.  Speed is usually not a problem for me, but don't expect me to dig out a RFD based on some kind of minutiae that you didn't adequately explain in your rebuttal.  Give me a good story on why you win the round; don't expect me to do the work for you.  I'll read cards at the end of the round (mostly because I'm curious,) but if you've done your job well, I shouldn't have to read much.

I don't like to see one partner who is very-talented dominate a less skilled teammate. If they can't get a word in, edgewise, during CX--it hurts your credibility, not theirs.  At the same time, a little good-natured smack talk, among friends, always impresses.

Have fun.  Debate hard.   --but don't take yourself too seriously.
  