
  Welcome to my paradigm! Let's get down to business.

My own frameworks:
1. I'm a senior in college, double majoring in sociology and math. I'm primarily focused on stratification, especially in STEM fields, and identity theory.
2. Experience - I'm from a UDL, debated on the national circuit for a year,* and have been judging/coaching since 2013.

tldr updated for 2017-2018 season: I've been judging a long time and my views are ever changing. Debate what you're best at, keep my flow clean (line by line PLEASE!!),* and tell me how to vote. Impact things and frame the debate and you'll probably win. Also, please bring me coffee, I'm probably tired :)


Please add me to the email chain! jnovack@worcester.edu 

On to the good stuff!

LD PARADIGM
I'm new to judging LD, but I'm fine with speed and theoretical debates. However, I don't want you to take my being a policy judge as a reason to spread at max capacity reading arguments that you don't understand to impress me. Do what you're good at and tell me how to vote!

POLICY PARADIGM
I like to think of myself who would vote on anything. However, as all people, I do have some biases.
Some things to keep in mind:

0 (and probably the most important). If your argument is not on my flow, it does not exist. Because of this, keeping my flow clean, repeating important points, and being clear can decide the round.

1. K-Affs: Run them! I enjoy hearing the literature. Please please tell me why your aff outweighs whatever the neg strat against you is and make sure to prioritize answering fw/t. I find that most of the time I'm forced to vote against k-affs is because of weird tech stuff.
Hitting K-Affs on neg: PLEASE give me clash on the aff flow.

2. Theory and T -Probably what I went for the most in high school. Please run it well and make sure to make it a priority if you want me to vote on it. If you're going for T, it should be the majority argument in your 2NR, if not the only. Please prove abuse and have a real voter. 

3. On standards - Do NOT spew interpretations without analysis and warrants. If you want to say that something kills education, I need to know what that means and how your opponent will specifically cause that. If you’re going for it, make it a real argument with impacts. Shallowness isn’t cool.

4. RVIs - I will vote on an RVI but you need to prove abuse and give them your speech time, if they don’t seem important to you, they won’t be important to me. More importantly, make sure it is clear that you are debating an RVI. Make the abuse and reason to vote for you absolutely crystal clear.

5. Ks - I'm not the best judge for high theory debates, although I'm at least slightly familiar with whatever author you're going to throw at me considering my sociology background. In high school I mainly ran cap and Nietzsche. I'll vote on any K as long as I understand the role of the alt and how it outweighs. I prefer strong analysis on the links as well. Make my flow easy/clean and the ballot will probably work out for you. PLEASE have me flow k fw on another piece of paper, and if it's a 1 off k if we could put perms on another sheet as well I'll be pretty amped.

6. Framework - If there's also t/theory in your round, please tell me how fw interacts with it and what I should be framing the round as. ROBs and ROJs that are extended and explained will make me happy. Brownie points if the 2R tells me exactly how to vote and why while framing impacts.

7. DA/CP - tried and true! Please please please impact calc and tell me how your cp solves.

8. Framing the Round - Tell me how to vote and keep my flow clean. Impact calc is your best friend. I need to know which argument overall outweighs the rest of the debate.

9. Flowing - Again, please tell me to flow all overviews, underviews and framework on a separate piece of paper...INCLUDING if you're extending specific cards. I'll make a note of it on the other flow and move it to where it belongs during CX or your prep time.

Things that will give you better speaker points:
-keeping my flow neat
-being respectful

Things that will get you lower speaker points:
-taunting, being rude during cross-ex
-making my flow messy

*oxford commas are cool


If you have any questions, you can email me at jnovack@worcester.edu.
  