
  Courtney Coffman/Nunley
Background: I'm a full-time coach at Northland Christian School in Houston, TX. I graduated in 2008 after debating for three years on the national and local circuits (TOC, NFL, TFA). I was a "traditional" debater whenever I competed (stock and policy arguments, etc) and that's still what I like to see. I have taught at Mean Green Workshops for many summers, and I have also taught at Pinnacle Winter Insitute for three winter sessions.

Judging Philosophy: I prefer a comparative worlds debate. When making my decisions, I rely heavily on good extensions and weighing. If you aren't telling me how arguments interact with each other, I have to decide how they do. If an argument is really important to you, make sure you're making solid extensions that link back to some standard in the round. I think CPs and DAs are fine as long as they link to a standard in the round. I believe there needs to be some sort of standard in the round.

Theory: I think running theory is fine (and encouraged) if there is clear abuse, but I don't care for debaters who run theory for the sake of running theory. I'm very unlikely to vote for theory if there isn't some sort of clear abuse.

Speaker Points: I give out speaker points based on a couple of things: clarity (both in speed and pronunciation), word economy, strategy and attitude. In saying attitude, I simply mean don't be rude. I think there's a fine line between being perceptually dominating in the round and being rude for the sake of being rude; so please, be polite to each other because that will make me happy.

Speed: I'd prefer a more moderate/slower debate that talks about substance than a round that is crazy fast/not about the topic. I can keep up with a moderate speed; slow down on tag lines/author names. I'll put my pen down if you're going too fast. If I can't flow it, I won't vote on it. Also, if you are going fast, an overview/big picture discussion before you go line by line in rebuttals is appreciated. You can consider me a 7 out of 10 on the speed scale.

Miscellaneous: I think permissibility and skep. arguments are defense and don't prefer to see them in a round. I default to comparative worlds.

Other things...
1. Don't try to win on tricks...I will severely dock speaker points and just be generally sad when making a decision (aka don't mislabel arguments, give your opponent things out of order, or try to steal speech/prep time, etc).
2. Please don't run morally repugnant positions in front of me. I can assure you that I would never think that genocide is justified.
3. Have fun!

Updated 8/23/14
  