
  This is the first time I have written a judging paradigm. It will probably be arranged in an illogical order. I’m sorry.

My name is Gino Nuzzolillo. I debated three years at Millard West High School in Omaha, Nebraska. I almost exclusively did Lincoln-Douglas debate & sometimes I did Congress. I qualified to 2015 NSDA Nationals in Congress. I had experience on the National Circuit but almost exclusively debated in Nebraska. My Junior & Senior years I finished as a Semifinalist & Quarterfinalist, respectively, at the Nebraska State Tournament in LD. I advanced to the Top 4 at NSDA National Qualifiers in LD two years in a row. I was an instructor at the Nebraska Debate Institute in 2016. I am currently a student at Duke University.

Speed/Progressive Arguments in LD:
I can handle speed fairly well—but if you’re the type of debater who goes so fast that they do that loud deep breath thing every five seconds, it’s likely that I’m not able to flow your arguments. Generally, I prefer debaters to stay at a moderately fast level. I will say “Clear” in the round if I think you are going too fast. If you don’t adapt, I will not be happy and you will lose speaker points.

I don’t really care what argument you try to run as long as its substantiated by logical and strong warrants. Counterplans, Kritiks, Theory, Disads, etc. Just be very explicit in the round so I have a clear conception of the meaning & impacts of your argument. I’m generally not opposed to any argument you want to run. However, if the argument is clearly disgusting in an ethical sense or just flat-out false, i.e. “The Holocaust didn’t happen”, I will not give it any credibility.

Do not assume I know the jargon you use. I ran a few kritiks in high school but I wouldn’t say I’m totally knowledgable about everything. Be careful.

Debating Style:

Be respectful. If you’re a jerk, it can affect whether or not I will vote for you & it will definitely affect your speaker points. Furthermore, this is an educational activity. Don’t berate or make a voting issue out of the innocent ignorance of your opponent, i.e. “he didn’t use my correct gender pronoun, therefore, vote him down”. I think we should continually strive to educate others around us in a friendly way—be helpful, rather than a hindrance to debate.

Arguments in General:

I’m not too concerned about framework, but I do love to see a substantive clash between two well-developed frameworks/standards/robs/any sort of framework you run. 
Always have well-explained claims, data, warrants, and impacts. Warrants are super important to me. I want every step in the link chain/narrative you’re presenting to me to be explicitly proven. I will avoid using my own intuition or intervening in the round at all. Construct the world for me. Make it easy to vote for you. 

Reach out to me if you have any questions at g-nuzzo@hotmail.com. Ask me any questions before the round as you wish. Remember, it is YOUR responsibility to persuade me and provide me with the correct perception of the arguments in the round. Do not post-round me and do not challenge me. Make it easy for me to sign the ballot in your favor.

The End
  