
  My background:

I was a four-year debater at the Jesuit College Preparatory School of Dallas (2001-2005). I currently work as the program coordinator of the Dallas Urban Debate Alliance. Nonetheless I've missed a lot of the developments in the debate world in the decade between 2005 and 2015, and hence new to the norms governing electronic evidence, sharing files during speeches, etc.

I will flow your debate on paper. I will be reluctant to look at my laptop.

General preferences:

I value good warrants for arguments. A true (or persuasive) analytical argument is worth more than a bad, misapplied, misleadingly highlighted card. Indeed, it's worth more than a hundred such cards.

I value accurate, well-considered use of evidence. If none of your authors would actually make the argument you want to make them make, then your opponents will have an easy time defeating it. It is reasonable to expect that serious arguments will be grounded in (some kind of) literature.

I value debates that demonstrate that their participants actually understand the issues and arguments involved, rather than simply possessing the surface-level understanding necessary to read a card.

I value good-faith, fair competition. I dislike obvious efforts to steal prep, take illegitimate advantage of circumstances outside the debate, etc.

Specific arguments:

I am reluctant to comment on my views on specific arguments (CPs, Ks, T, etc.). Two reasons: 
Having been out of debate for a while, I'm not sure my views are sufficiently nuanced or well established for me to write them out at length.To comment on specific arguments is implicitly to distinguish your views from others', to highlight how they might deviate from those of the wider debate community. I don't have a strong enough sense of the debate zeitgeist to make those distinctions intelligently.With those caveats, I think I can still say a few specific things:
I like topicality, and will vote on it. At the same time, see the above on accurate use of evidence—don't twist some non-definition into a definition, or a definition into some other, more limiting/strategic definition.I am very comfortable with kritiks; in fact, I think kritiks often satisfy my preferences about warranted arguments, good evidence, etc. better than more "conventional" arguments. (See: most every politics disadvantage.)I have no problem with kritik-y affs, but tend to think that they should have a plan text, be topical, etc. I am likely to be skeptical of "performances," all the more so if they're not germane to the resolution.I appreciate thoughtful case debate, and likewise thoughtful solvency debates on counterplans.Nonetheless, as a general rule, I try to be open to voting on any argument, so long as it's presented well and defended persuasively. I know that everyone(?) says this, so take it for what it's worth.
  