
  I debated LD for 3 years at Christopher Columbus High School. I am a second-year student at the University of Texas at Austin majoring in Chemistry.

In General:
I'm probably closer to what you would consider traditional or lay rather than progressive. But above all else, tell me how to evaluate the round and that is how I will evaluate it. I strongly urge you to do a traditional V-VC framework because that will be a lot simpler for me to judge, but feel free to run anything under that umbrella. Kritikal stuff is mostly fine. Even though I'm looking for V-VC, don't feel confined to only use things like justice or basic morality, I'll accept anything from nihilism to virtue ethics if you can explain and defend it thoroughly. I will try my best to keep up with Plans and CP's, but please try your best to avoid this. No Theory. Just tell me what you’re winning and why it matters, and you shouldn’t have a problem picking up my ballot. The best thing you can do for yourself is give me a clear ballot story. Give me a clear ballot story.
Speaker points are determined by how well you are able to articulate your arguments and defend your position, the winner of the debate is determined by which argument ultimately wins. In layman terms, speaker points are based on how well you debate, the winner of the debate is based on the substance of the debate itself (the flow).

Specifics:
Speed and Spreading: Please don't spread. My handwriting is pretty slow and it's been a while since I've heard someone spread, so I'm not that ready to keep up with it. You can talk a little fast, so maybe start off at about 50 percent your top speed and see where it goes from there. If I can't understand you then I can't understand or evaluate your arguments so keep that in mind. If you are speaking too fast or if I cannot understand what you're saying, I will say "clear" to let you know to slow down and speak clearer.Theory: No Theory. I don't feel comfortable enough evaluating it, and if you run it, it will be reflected in your speaker points. If you feel that there is a serious imbalance or unfair aspects in the debate, trust that I will address it on your behalf in my judging. Don't go over my head and run Theory.Cross Examination: Definitely interact with your opponent during CX. Don't be rude, but if your opponent is rambling on feel free to politely interrupt them and move on to the next question. Don't just interrupt an incomplete answer so you can use that response to your advantage, I will make note of this. CX is binding, keep that in mind.Evidence and Arguments: Evidence and arguments must be extended through every round and weighed appropriately against other pieces of evidence or arguments if you wish to use it later on in the debate. If you wish to use a piece of evidence or an argument later on in the debate, you must say "extend [blank] through the round" and say why it is extended for each speech in the round. If arguments or evidence are dropped one speech and picked up in the next, I will not evaluate it. If you notice your opponent has dropped an argument or a piece of evidence, please say "my opponent has dropped [blank] so I extend it through the rest of the round" and then explain why you are extending it. If there are two competing pieces of evidence or arguments, they absolutely need to be weighed against each other and you have to tell me why your evidence/argument is better than the other. I will not do the weighing for you just the same as I will not do the debating for you. Just because your opponent has dropped an argument or a piece of evidence, don't expect it to just be automatically won for you and the debate over it to be decided, you must explain to me why that particular argument or piece of evidence is so important and how it works in your favor. If there is a very contested piece of evidence in the round, I may call it over to be evaluated for legitimacy after the round is over. If you are misinterpreting a card or an author, I will not evaluate it during the round. This applies substantially to those using kritiks and are abusing the words of the author when they know very well that the author never intended the use of it in that matter. Don't twist words to fit your own interpretation, they will not be evaluated. As well, there must be no new evidence or major arguments brought up after the first few speeches, I will not evaluate them. Extensions are essential, weighing is essential.Final Speech: Extend anything you intend to you, weigh again, address new or recurring arguments from the previous speech, and then give a ballot story. The ballot story is where you specifically go over the entirety of the debate and tell me the concrete reasons why you have won the debate and your opponent has lost, this summation is largely where I will decide the debate. Making it easy to understand for me will go a long way towards me evaluating the arguments correctly and you winning or losing the debate. Do not bring up any new evidence or arguments that weren't mentioned before.
Other:
Try to have fun during the debate, it doesn't have to be completely serious. If you or your opponent can demonstrate that you are having a good time, more speaker points may be awarded.Be polite and courteous. Don't be rude or aggressive to your opponent, especially if they seem like novices or are otherwise outmatched. This includes not running things like K's or CP's or such if it becomes painfully clear that they are not going to be able to respond. I will evaluate your arguments effectively, but your speaker points may suffer severely from it.Feel free to either sit or stand, I don't care. Whatever you find more comfortable.Try to give a roadmap of where your arguments will be in the speech before you start talking, it'll make it easier for me to follow and keep up with you.
  