
  UC Berkeley 2020 
East Kentwood Highschool 2016 
michaelobuchi@gmail.com 
Five beliefs:
I think debate is a game, but this game is not neutral nor is it isolated from many of the forms of violence we talk about. 
Speech times 
Rocks may/may be people, and death may/may not be bad, idk you tell me 
one winner one loser 
I can only decide what was in the round, nothing else
 Bad arguments even if dropped, are not true. In other words Truth>Tech 
How I judge debates:
1. write out main questions of the debate
2. Compare 2AR/2NR on these issues
3. Look at connections to previous speeches and cx 
4. Evaluate relevant evidence 
Content: 
I have no preferences. Go for what you're best at. 
What I like: 
Impac calc, ev comparison, structured and organized speeches, clarity, a good joke 
What I don't like:
Rudeness
Policy Affs: 
I will be very annoyed if your interal link evidence and solvency advocates are crap 
K Affs: 
Relevance to the topic is good. What that looks like is definitely up for debate. Defending something is really good. Shifting advocacies are not good. 
K: 
Must be specific to the 1AC and not the squo. Please invest significant effort into the link debate. I vote Aff in these rounds quite a bit because contextualization to the aff is very lack luster. Impact framing is major. It's not cool to not know what you're talking about. I expect a decent understanding of not only the theoretical basis of your arguments, but also examples and a solid praxis as well
Framework: 
I think fw debates are incredibly important. It's where we truly talk about what this activity means (this is something I personally go back and forth on a lot, but love to hear what you have to say about it). 
Topicality: 
The team that wins has the best understanding of how the competing interpretations influence aff/neg ground. 
Theory: 
eh. sure. i guess 
Disads: 
IMPACT CALC. Turns case and specific link work analysis are awesome 
Case Debating: 
I will be very happy if this is a thing 
Speaker Point Range 
27.5-27.9-Poor grasp of the debate, rudeness 
28-28.5- Understood what was going on. Made logical arguments and attempted line by line 
28.6-28.9- Solid. Engaged the line by line. Ev comparison was a thing. Impeccable framing 
29-29.5-Wow 
29.6-30- How is possible for such beauty to exist in this ugly world 
  