
  Basics
the 30 second "I just need to know the basics" version
A 2n that has debated at Westminster all of high school on the national circuit
PAPERLESS- prep stops when you say it does not when the flash leaves the computer. If I see you stealing prep I will nuke your speakers points. If you get caught clipping cards you will loose and probably have to endure a pretty embarrassing talk from your coaches. 
 t- topicality is a reason to reject the team. As the neg try to prove some sort of abuse. As the aff make sure to answer the line by line.
cp- yes I will vote on cp's and think they are very strategic most of the time. Be ready to answer theory if you read them, I think a nice disad when paired with a well thought out cp can make for quite a devastating strat. 
da- as per most debaters DA and case are my favorite kind of debates. I appreciate well thought out internal link sequences and impact comparison. :)
case turns- same as disad :)
k- as long as your k is nothing radical chances are I have read it and understand a decent amount about it. In general I really enjoy a k debate once in a while. That being said I think people go for them way to much and that annoys me when there is a better strategic option. I really dont like voting on those 2 second k tricks like "fiat is illusory" but I will if need be, just make sure its the best option. Make sure to defend an alt if applicable, i think most teams don't do enough work here
theory- I will vote on more or less any theory except RVI's. Condo is probably ok to an extent but perf con is probably not the best thing ever. That being said make your arguments and tell me why I should vote for you and if you do a good job I will no matter what the argument is. 
MOST IMPORTANTLY 
HAVE FUN- if you are funny be funny, if not just do a good job. Making me smile and having a good time yourselves will be rewarded. 
Speaker points- 
30= chances are you showed me the real meaning of life while riding a raging walrus. You truly are the very best 
29= you are a fantastic debater with ethos pouring from your pores. 
28=You did a good job. a 28 is about average and anything above that is impressive. You had some ethos and more than competent, 
27=Doesn't mean you are a bad debater but chances are something when majorly wrong, I will clarify after the round if you receive around a 27. 
<27= magicarp. you were rude, forfeited, 
 
 
  