
  Overview
I am currently a Sophomore at UT Austin. I attended Keller High and debated primarily L/D Debate, where I graduated in 2009. I have significant judging experience in L/D from last year.

L/D Framework
Definitions/Pre-Standards- Overall, the definitions in your case should not be the best place to gain offense from the round, though I do apprieciate a debater that gives definitions. I tend to look poorly on definitions that are abusive or blatantly silly, though I still prefer for you to address these issues in your opponent's case (I won't ever just disregard something a debater says). I accept "Pre-Standards" or "Observations" as long as they are resolutional and fair.

Values- I enjoy a variety of unique and thoughtful values, though traditional values are alsoo acceptable. However, I prefer that you never just assume that I will accept a value because it says it in the resolution (i.e. "Justice" or "Morality"). You are still required to show inherent value and resolutionality. I don't appreciate values which are actually standards. I tend to not throw out a value for being "vague" or "nebulous" due to the nature of values in general. I do not require a value for a debater to gain offense in an L/D round, though it is almost always strategic to do so.

Criteria/Standards- This ought to be the easy part: your standard should be a weighing mechanism that links to your value and your case. No link, no offense.

Other- I believe that debaters should have multiple pieces of offense throughout their case, as well as attempt to make turns on their opponent's case. I am generally open minded to all types of arguments and enjoy healthy, educational debating.

Presentation
Speed- I am able to handle most speed and I am even understanding of the necessity of speed in certain instances. THe one thing I ask is to slow down significantly when saying the names of people you are quoting. I like having "titles" to cards and if i catch the name I'll be able to remember the content of the card better.

SIGNPOST! You shouldn't have to be told.

Evidence- Don't rely on evidence to win your case. My decision will never EVER come down to who's card trumps what. It's much more important that you are logical and smart. Smart arguments always trump what evidence says.

Overall, I will vote for the better debater (as demonstrated during the round). I will never let a debate boil down to a technicality.
  