
  Background: I learned how to debate in high school in the late 80's-early 90's, when hypo-testing was old news and critical arguments were not wide-spread (maybe an Objectivism DA, but no Kritiks). From workshop education to in-round practice, I had a pretty solid Policy Maker paradigm. Fast forward... I returned to the debate community 6 years ago as a coach at Ruston High School in Louisiana. I judge around 35 rounds a year, though mostly in Louisiana, with a few National Circuit tournaments.

Style
I enjoy smart debate, with well-thought out comparisons, clash, and cross-applications. I require clarity, though don't mind a little speed. If you watched the final round at NFL nats in Vegas 08, the 1AC was pretty slow to me, but the 1AR was pacing along at a nice clip.

Critical Arguments
After initial resistance, I've enjoyed learning about new critical arguments; however, I will still default to a Policy Maker if debaters don't convince me to adopt a different framework. I am especially persuaded by K's that have specific solvency implications, specific link stories, CP's as alternatives. I am not inclined to believe that my ballot will affect real-world conversations at the tournament in the cafeteria, sparking a revolution. I would need more time and a different venue than a policy debate round to decide if I wanted to join a revolution.


Topicality
This is an okay part of a strategy, though I tend to lean toward reasonable Aff's, unless the Affirmative doesn't effectively argue the violation. Good logic cannot be expressed in blips! I ask, "Is this a fair interpretation of the resolution and which interpretation is better?" Hopefully the debaters answer this within their arguments.

Counterplan Theory
I was shocked at the number of topical counterplans when I returned to debate, but I've come to believe that a well-researched, plan-specific PIC is valid. Conditional just opens you up to too much theory against you, so why bother? Dispositional is fine, and unconditional is nice and gutsy. I would decide the theory debate on who had the better reasoning while refuting the other side's reasoning. Defense is necessary, offense is very helpful.

Finally,
An ideal round for me would include an Aff case that operated in the fiat world and Neg that mitigated Aff advantages, a DA, and a CP (and other specific case solvency if CP uses a different agent or technology).

Please refrain from being rude, rolling your eyes at others, talking or eating during someone else's speech, etc.
  