
  Experience:
I debated all three years of high school in Utah, first at Olympus high school then at Bingham high school. I'm now debating my third year for Weber State University, as a 2N. 

TL/DR---
Debate the way that you want to debate, I'm comfortable with both straight up and kritikal debate. Don't be a brat to the other team, and if you are going to win theory/T/FW, you need to prove abuse and impact it out accordingly.

Argument Specific Preferences:
Affirmatives:
Straight-Up: I have a lot of experience with them, I was a 2A in high school the majority of the time, just make sure that you use your evidence.
Kritikal: Go for it. I'm 100% cool with it, just make sure to use your impacts and the warrants in those lovely pieces of evidence you have. Since starting debating in college I've read only kritikal affirmatives including--
 War Powers: Agamben SOE
 Legalization: Mary Magdelene (God), and Female Serial Killers (Fem Rage)
 Military Presence: Black Feminist Criticism (Uganda Specifically) 
Topicality: I love a good T debate, just make sure to answer the "Why should I care?" in the 2NR or it's not going to be a very compelling argument. Compare interps! Tell me what they justify! Impact out the argument! 
Disadvantages: I value good link and uniqueness evidence on disadvantages, but I have no irreverence to them.
Counterplans: I only vote on competitive counterplans, PICS are a thing, I can and will still vote on any CP if you win a good enough net benefit. That being said, please have a net benefit for your counter plan, I'll even accept case turns as a net benefit if you frame it the right way, but keep in mind if the negative reads a counterplan presumption can easily change.
Kritiks: I find K debates the most compelling if it still has an air of technicality to it, line by line doesn't have to go away! I also think that if you are going to win a kritik in the 2NR there has to be some quality impact calculus, thorough explanation of the alternative, and comparison to make it more compelling, but I'm fairly in to the lit and a variety of it at that. If you have specific questions about my experience with a type of argument feel free to email me/ask me before the debate. 
Framework: It's a good thing, I'm a firm believer that debate is constantly changing, and I find arguments about that change. if it's a good thing or if it's a bad thing, to be really entertaining to watch. I don't really have a predetermined idea of what debate is and how it should be evaluated, because I think that's something that the debater gets to do in the round that is also constantly changing.
Theory: This is tricky. I tend to evaluate theory similar to how I evaluate topicality, it's something that can win you a round, if you run it properly, a quick blippy thing in the 2AR that is similar to, "Plus they were conditional and that's bad so don't vote for them", is not a round winner. I find in round abuse scenarios, actual impacts, and consistency very compelling when it comes down to it. All of that being said, I believe that conditionality is probably a good thing.

Answers to the FAQ:
Do you count prep time for flashing? Not inherently, but if I feel like your prepping still I'll start the clock and if it's taking forever I'll get irritated.
Do you allow tag team cross x? Yes, but don't just take over your partner's cross x.
Are you okay with speed? Yes, but that being said I will never vote a team down on the sole reason that they weren't "fast enough" for me, and if you aren't fast enough and feel like you're being outspread grouping is your new best friend.

Position Notes:
2A/1N
I was a 2A for three years, I appreciate a good 2AC block file, and taking minimal prep time for the 2AC always shows you're prepared.Don't feel like all you have to do as a 1N is read cards, the 1NR is still something the 2N can go for so still take it seriously, make smart argsThe 2AR can lie a little bit, but trust me I'm flowing and just because you tell me they, "TOTALLY FORGOT THE PERM" doesn't mean I'll scratch it from my flow, use that time to tell me why I should prefer the perm etc.2N/1A
Use the 2NR to pre-empt 2AR analysis, I will understand that you don't get a 3NR, but that's no excuse to just ignore what they could say for 5 minutes.The 1AR is one of the hardest speeches to give, extend what you need to, but be smart about grouping.START THE IMPACT COMPARISON EARLY
Pet Peeves:
Being disrespectful to your partner and/or the other teamGendered/Offensive languageTaking forever to flash documentsPrep stealingReading ahead in speech docs and then being surprised when you miss the round winning analyticNot flowing in generalLack of clarity when speaking, you can read as many cards as you want but if I can't understand them it's irrelevant, you'll get two warnings.Just make a differential between cards, "NEXT", "AND", "#3....#4" etc.
If you have any other questions feel free to email me at anneolsen@weber.edu


*Edit for Silver and Black* I have some experience judging Lincoln Douglas, from that experience I have decided I have a very high threshold for theory arguments. I need an actual external impact that is well explained, if you are going to go for theory go all in. Also you need to actually prove abuse, I'm not going to be very convinced by arguments like the aff shouldn't get a permutation because it makes it hard to be neg etc. 
  