
  I debated at Loyola High School, Los Angeles for the past 4 years and am now debating as a freshman at Wake Forest University.

I remember reading long judge philosophies and hating it, so i'll try to keep this one short.

Aff: You can pretty much read whatever you want in front of me. I read an aff that defended fiat but had K advantages. I've also read straight-up policy affs. I generally think defending the resolution is a good thing, but I'm pretty tabula rosa and will listen to most arguments. I'm really not a fan of Baudrillard affs, but if you read it, then you can read it in front of me. Basically, just do what you do best.

Neg: I'm gonna break this down into sections

T: On most T questions, reasonability is probably what I default to. Substantial isn't persuasive to me unless the aff is obviously not. If the def. says 25% and they're 24%, you can probably still get the same lit. and links for DAs. In round abuse is a pretty big thing, but don't just make something up. It should be real abuse. I try to be as tabula rosa as possible though, so if you're neg and you think T is the most strategic option, go for it. Sometimes, Tech over truth works.

CP: I'm fine with them. If they don't solve all of case, then you should go for case defense in the 2NR as well, not just say that the DA outweighs any unsolved advantage(s).
Theory: Conditionality is probably a good thing as long as you have 3 or less advocacies. Pre-round condo is a decent arg. though.

DA: I'm fine with them. I'm kinda weird in the sense that i find uniqueness a bigger deal than most judges I guess. You're not gonna win from just a non-unique, but I evaluate the risk of uniqueness and the risk of a link with similar weight.

Case: Defense or offense, I'll listen to it all. You should probably read some in the 1NC if you aren't a 1-off K team. But hey, it's your 1NC. Do what you want.

Ks: Framework is pretty much a must for me unless you plan on outweighing case. Generic Ks I understand very well. Topic specific Ks I do not understand very well, especially since I haven't read much lit on the topic. I find kicking the alt. more acceptable that most judges, especially if you're winning on a framework/meta level.

Just go for what you think is best to go for.
  