
  Debate Related Experience --
Current Debate Coach at Alief Tatlor High School
3x TFA State Qualifier (Alief Hastings) Congressional Debate
2x NSDA Nationals Qualifier (Space City NSDA) Public Forum
2x IPDA Debate Top 10 in the Nation (8th; 5th) 


Presumption: I am one of the most naturally neutral individuals I know. I will NOT favor a side because I SHOULD. I will favor a side because you convinced me to... hence the purpose of effective argumentation. Don't assume -- just explain.

Speed: Be understood. Be clear. If Idon't flow it... IT NEVER HAPPENED. Remember this during warrants / impacts/ extensions. I rarely call for cards, so if I need to hear it, make sure you set the scene for optimal results.
Theory/ K: Debating about debate is fun and engaging -- if it makes sense.
Silly theories are just silly, but go back to my section on presumption - I will favor a side because you convinced me to... hence the purpose of effective argumentation. If you convince me that the theory is valid, then it is for the round. I will not assume how it functions or the reasonability of it. Prove that it does or doesn't. A good K with clear explinations, links and impacts are refreshing to me. Neg must explain why aff can't perm the day away -- why is the alt superior? Aff, why is the perm better than the alt and case solo? This is where speed choices are important.



Evidence: Here are a few questions you should ask yourself: Do you understand the card? Does it link to the argumentation presented? Is it topical to the context you're using it in? Do the warrants exist in the text? Is it qualified?  Is it dated? ....is clipping truly worth it?

T's, DA's, CPs: Policy was my niche back in the day. That being said -- I'll buy it if its clear, all conditions are met, it makes sense, and if it actually does something /proves a point. I will follow the flow, and the flow alone. Keep it clean!

Finally... most importantly... thell me WHY I should be voting for you. Yes.
I want voters. Explain why a drop is catastrophic. Tell me why case outweighs. You know what happens when you assume... don't assume that I'm rolling with you.  Explain why I should be.
  