
  Random Tid-bits:

I default to a logical decision-making. I prefer debates of substance and topic-centered discussions.

Impact calculus is very important to me. It is more than just stating that your impact card outlines a
scenario that is shorter/bigger/more realistic than your opponents. To me, magnitude, timeframe, and 
probability are all a function of the interaction between the link, internal link, and impact and how
defense or offense read in the round influences them.

Evidence comparison is really important to me as well. I will call for cards at the end of the round. To
prevent any intervention on my part, please make warranted reasons why I should prefer your card over
your opponents.

Specific Issues/Positions

Speed: I believe that speed is good for debate as long as it is used to increase the number of substantive
arguments in the round. Do not use it as a tool to exclude your opponent. I expect you to respond to
calls from me or your opponent to decrease the level of speed or increase your clarity.

Topicality: You don’t have to prove in-round abuse for me to vote on topicality. I view standards as
advantages to your interpretation so you should extend them as such—give a clear explanation of your
link, internal link, and impact. Make sure you are warranting arguments like reasonability. I have been
judging policy debate for 4 years and have yet to vote on an RVI.

Theory: I will vote on theory, but it is harder to win these types of arguments in front of me. I believe
most theory arguments are just defense with random voters attached, and I generally find them
unpersuasive. If you feel compelled to read theory in front of me, the position needs to be well-
developed and there needs to be a thorough explanation of why your interpretation is necessary to
preserve best debate practices.

Ks: I really like critical debate, especially if it’s topic-specific. If you read a k, make sure you contextualize
your links and alternative in the rebuttal. I am also generally persuaded by debaters that extend the
links as DAs to the case.
  