
  I debated for West Bend East (WI) and coached at Madison East (WI) in the mid/late 90s. I have judged policy, LD, and PF since then. I have not judged any rounds on the 2009-10 topic.

1. Clash - No matter what arguments are made, clash is essential to every debate. It seems so simple and unnecessary to state, yet I judge numerous rounds where there is little or no clash.

2. Topicality - T is a voter, and I will certainly vote on it. My standard is reasonableness. If the AFF case is reasonably within the resolution, I will lean AFF on T. That said, I don't want to discourage NEG from running T. NEG: If you plan on running T, keep it simple. I want definition, violation, and one/two reasons why your definition should be accepted. Don't run a 10-point block. AFF: Same thing: definition, violation, one/two reasons. Don't argue that T is not a voter.

3. Counterplans/Critiques - I do not like counterplans or critiques and rarely vote for them. NEG: Run them at your risk.

4. Disads - I love case-specific DAs with real world impacts. NEG: Have strong links and uniqueness. If all of your DAs end in nuclear war, I am probably going to vote AFF because the links and uniqueness are weak.

5. Theory - I am not opposed to general theory arguments, but I prefer the round to stay on the substance of the resolution.

6. Speed - I am not opposed to speed. However, I will not let you know that I can't understand you other than not flowing your argument. If you see me stop flowing, then you can't talk fast and clearly at the same time.

7. Case - NEG: I have judged too many rounds where NEG makes no arguments on case. This is a bad strategy for m ballot. I have flowed AFF many times where case is not attacked and DAs have weak links and/or uniqueness. This is an easy round for me to flow AFF. I am not saying that you need to run an eight-minute harm/inherency block. But you need me to think that there are problems with case, particularly on solvency. Case turns are even better. AFF: If NEG does not make any attacks on case, tell me to flow case AFF and then attack NEG arguments.

8. Evidence/Analytics - I will not read cards after the round, unless there is an accusation that the team made up the card. The round has set time limits, and I am not going to extend those limits (or push the tournament back) because you spent too little time on a particular card during the round. I love analytics and think that they can be more persuasive than cards. Don't be discouraged from using logic to defeat the other side's arguments.
  