
   To give you a background of how much experience I did two years in Public Forum and made it to the TOC my final year as well as winning State in Utah. I am now a first year debater at snow college who is debating parliamentary and am already in Open debate.
 I AM FINE WITH PROGRESSIVE LD. Since both of the debates I have done do not have tags and the authors I am going to have a harder time flowing them so please slow down and make sure that if you are just spreading cards (that is not going to happen in the rebuttals though) please make a clear pause with a word to indicate that you are moving to a tag. Furthermore read ALL plan texts and CP's twice. If it is too fast or it is not clear enough I do not care about yelling clear.
 I love the idea of a V V/C debate and would have no problem with someone saying that this form of debate is better and running a theory argument if it is well argued. I am however skeptical and have not seen it yet. I am somewhat familiar with philosophies but if it is obscure I would ask you to please make sure it is explained.
 For the most part I am quite Tabla Rusa, so I am not going to just accept blatant claims I need them warranted and I will not let you state something completely false, such as Mitt Romney is the current president, but saying that he was the better candidate (first, not saying he was. Second, no relevance for you to argue) could be something that I would flow and accept as fact if not argued. That means that if you are able to display an anthro K that is explained thoroughly as well as won in the round I am willing to vote for it.
 If you are reading for speaks worry about doing all of the above to get them. In other words, make sure you are logical and are doing the correct thing, or at least a very smart path, to win a certain argument or make it neglible in round.
 I do not vote on RVI's on theory. It is a test of competitiveness and am also more compelled towards conditional CP's and not accepting PIC theory. That does not mean though that I will not vote for it. Just do what you need to do to win the round I am just saying that I feel like CP's are as well a test of competitiveness.
  