
  Debated TFA circuit for 3 years at Hendrickson High School and currently a first year debater at the University of North Texas.

I will pretty much vote on anything, as long as it is explained well. Also, I need impact calculus - this applies to every argument on the flow (meaning topicality and theory need it just as much as a disad.) 

Topicality: I really like a good topicality debate. impact calc is really important here. Whoever weighs the impacts of their interpretations best will usually win the debate for me. I tend to lean towards a competing interpretations framework, but I will vote otherwise.

Theory: Just like topicality, I really like a good theory debate. I tend to err neg on cp theory debates, but I have voted on condo bad, pics bad, agent cps bad, and consult cps bad before. I generally think Delay CPs are pretty abusive. I also need really good impact calc here to make a decision and the team that does that best will probably win.

Counterplans: I don't have much to object to here. I love them. I ran them and went for them a lot in HS so I'm really comfortable with a cp debate.I especially love a really plan specific cp.

Disads: Again, not much to object to here. I love them. Impact calc here is SUPER important. It needs to be specific to the aff to make voting easier for me.

Kritiks: I'm cool with Ks. I ran them and understand them, but I'm not much of a hack. This means any jargon and specific cards/authors will probably not be stuff I am super familiar with, That doesn't mean you shouldn't run them - it just means I need explanation. I won't do extra work for you on the flow, anything said in your cards that you didn't say in the debate will probably not be used to your advantage. Also, explaining the link and specifically weighing your impacts in terms of the aff is really key here. It makes the difference between a good K round and a bad K round.

Speaker points:

on the 100 point scale this is how it should be interpreted

100 - 95 - 29.5
95-91 - 29
90 - 85 - 28.5
84 - 81 - 28
80 - 75 - 27.5
74 - 70 - 27
(any lower and you really messed something up...)


Feel free to ask me any questions before the round :)
  