
  I want to resist telling you how excited I am about filling in a philosophy, but I think mentioning it briefly will suffice.

About me: I debated for three years in high school under Kristie Cramer (CCC/Perry) and currently debate in varsity for George Mason University. I have come into contact with some of the greatest debate minds there are. I don't mean to say that I have absorbed every tidbit of their knowledge, but that must mean something. For you ego people that find these things really important: I never made it to the Golden Palace of the TOC, but I did make it to out-rounds of national tournaments and receive speaker awards. I have debated at both CEDA and NDT nationals. I argue(d) the K and case mostly, and love the hell out of it. Note, I do not judge many high school rounds. I can most certainly flow, but there are those much better than me. If you have any qualms about my abilities, feel free to ask for my flows after you lose so that you can tell the coach it was my fault.
About you: I prefer arguments that are interesting. I prefer arguments that are not evil. I prefer to hear people who speak clearly and make me laugh. Don't make fun of sexual preference, gender, or disabilities. Don't make fun of race or religion. Don't make light of tragedies. Don't be asinine or I will make you suffer. Don't make T and theory painful. Please do it well and do it with integrity. I mean, I don't care if you're wrong (like you run T on a resolution plan text), I just mean argue it well and keep things in the big picture, SPECIFIC to the circumstances of the violation. Don't try to be super fast on theory (or long tags, for that matter).
About you and me together: Defensive arguments are perfectly legitimate and if you did a damn good job, then you beat the DA (or X other argument). That really goes for any argument because unlike some others I feel that you can win on literally A N Y argument as long as you do a better job than the other kids. Do not assume that because I like the K that you should run it; even further do not assume that you should run it as if I know what the thesis of your argument is. Do not assume that because I am speaking with you and trying to make the round a comfortable place for discussion that I am creepy. Do not assume that because I am a feminist I am just PMSing all the time. Lastly, I don't need you to read one hundred cards to be right. A few grand ones will do just fine- even on, gasp!, politics DAs and the like. Never underestimate the power of logic.

With love,
Emily Owens
  