
  I did debate for about 4 years, one of them dedicated to ld, the other 3 to policy. 
Got a bid, and state all 4 years whatever that means...

Plans/CP/DA:I'm cool with them. I'll pretty much accept any policy argument in ld, unless questioned by opposing theory. Then I'll default to competing interps.To win these args you need a few thingsPlan - solves harms and advantage, while avoiding bad things (DAs).CP/DA - DA must have a clear link, and impact CP must prove mutual exclusivity, and solves affs impacts while avoiding disad.


Kritiks: This is mainly what I read. I'm pretty familiar with a variety of literature from having debated it or ran it, but I try not to let my previous knowledge affect my decision on whether you explained it to me as well as it should have been explained. Please avoid jargon on the k as much as possible because I think if you can explain it in your own words then you definitely understand it and have synthesized the information to a point where it is educational for it to be brought in the debate round. Plus no one wants to hear generic K debates, just make it specific to the round and we are perfect. 

PerformanceIts great, if done well will receive my best speaks because it generally has a personal connection to you and I enjoy hearing the story you should get to tell. Make sure the performance is meaningful and necessary for the debate otherwise it is silly and gives performance a bad name, resulting in bad speaks and probably a loss.TheoryIf you read theory appropriately then I'll default to competing interpretations.If you read theory and it's unnecessary, because the aff is clearly topical and none of your standards apply and you decided to pull out a T shell so you could suck time, then I'll be more likely to side with the affs dismissive response, topped with reasonability.SpeedSpeed is a useful tool. Slow tags and citations is a must, read the warrants as fast as you want, but if you are unclear I will only tell you once. After that your speaks go down, and I will stop flowing.
Speaks: 
Be clear, persuasive, and respectful for whoever you debate.

If you have any additional questions feel free to ask me before the round. Read what you want, debate should be what you make of it. 
  