
  Basic Background
I went to Davis High School, where I competed primarily in DI and Policy. I didn't have time in college to debate which vexes me. I've been judging essentially since I graduated in 2005. I've had experience judging each event, but predominantly judge Policy. I'll be judging more in the later half of the season, due to difficulty getting off work. I really like hats.

Policy Philosophy
I'm predominantly a tab judge. I like the idea of every argument having a chance if you can argue it well. However, no human being can completely rid themselves of their personal biases. While I have voted based on topicality, it's a rare event. It's primarily a time suck and while I won't be annoyed with you for running it, I see topicality as primarily a protection against outrageous plans. As such, unless the opposing team is bad at responding, your best shot at winning with it is based on abuse. I absolutely love critiques, I think they're a lot of fun and absolutely love listening to them. I'm not the biggest fan of counterplans, but if you can prove that it is remarkably better than the plan and can't be done through that plan you have a decent shot. I'm bored of the China and Russia counterplans, though, so you'll get kudos points for avoiding those. I'm swayed more by harms generally, but they need to be at least somewhat reasonable. I also welcome theory debates. Generally, though, my own biases impact more my own amusement than the ballot. It'll just make me happier, and I'm delightful when I'm happy. If you see things differently, by all means, run it. Don't limit your arguments based on my personal desires, go off what you feel strongest running.

I allow tag teaming, but the person whose CX it is ought to do MOST of the talking. I'm fine with speed, but make sure you go a little slower on tag lines, and make it obvious when you go to the next card by saying next. I love debate, and as such, I feel it should be shown some respect. Which means I think you should look at least somewhat professional and carry a pleasant demeaner. Do not attack the other team... or your partner. It's unprofessional and does not bode well for speaking points. Don't bother asking who I voted for, I never tell. I really like pirates.
  