
  Erin Pack-Jordan/ Erin Pack (same person!)
Strike List- High School: Richardson, Berkner, Princeton (TX), Hallsville; College parli: Ranger, Utah
Camps Worked 2013-14: Beehive Forensics Institute (UT) & Northwest College (WY)

Paradigm: I identify most strongly as a Tab judge and will listen to any warranted argument. I tend to default to Policy Making and enjoy a good impact calc debate. Argue what you are comfortable arguing.

Speed: I don't mind spreading, but please enunciate. I will shout "CLEAR!" one time if I can't understand; adjust accordingly. Be sure to be clear on your tags and theory args.

Kritiks: I enjoy Ks as long as they can logically flow within the context of the round. I have a decent grasp of most K authors (thanks grad school!), so you need to have more than a Cliff Notes understanding of their ideas. I will most definitely call you out on the ballot if you display a blatant misunderstanding of their ideas.

The rule of thumb for me with K's- don't read something if it doesn’t offer a competitive alternative and you can't sufficiently link it into the case without making a huge leap. I want logical progression. Generic Ks for their own sake are no bueno.

DA/CPs: I enjoy these A LOT. Just be thorough in your cards and links. Experimental DAs and CPs are fantastic. Be creative and bring your A game.

Performance: Admittedly, I have a bias against these arguments, but as a Tab judge, I will listen to you. Please be sure to err on the side of coverage in your theoretical justifications for it. Don't undress. I will report you to the tournament director for harassment without hesitation. 

Style Points: Be polite and present thoughtful arguments.

Open CX is allowed, but both teams need to agree upon it before the round. Don't ambush the other team. If one team member is doing all of the CX work, speaker points will be appropriately assigned. Be a good teammate and work!

Don't be an awful human being. I consider this to include: sassing me or other judges before/during/after a round, randomly shouting at the other team during their constructives or rebuttals, cursing at me or your opponents, racist/sexist/classist/xenophobic/homophobic comments to other people in-round.

Paperless: I've coached paperless teams, so I definitely understand the hiccups associated with technology. That being said, please be quick. If I feel you're taking advantage of flash time, I'll say so and start timing you. Be focused, do what you need to do, and it'll be fine. 

LD Paradigm: I appreciate good clash on framework. Most of my LD ballots go to debaters who can provide the most offense-based arguments and the best value/criterion linkages. I also like evidence, policy-based approaches, and a priori considerations.

College Parli: Admittedly, I'm a newbie in this type of debate. Since my background is in policy, I'm comfortable with a fast and technical style, and will evaluate the round as a tab judge.

Parting Words?: I'm the Director of Debate at Corner Canyon High School in the SLC area. I'm originally from Texas, where I coached Policy, extemp, LD, OO, and Congress. My husband is a debate assistant at Utah. My master's emphasis was in Critical Literacy- Education at UNT. I have judged for way too long and enjoy the activity a great deal.
  