
  Background: I'm a second year debater at UGA. I debated for 4 years at Alpharetta High School. I've been a 2A before, but I'm a 2N.

Important/Misc Notes:
I think debates should be evaluated on a clean slate, so anything that is an argument that is well explained and debated goes.

The most important thing in debate is to explain your warrants and impact them. I've always been taught by various coaches, teammates, and lab leaders to debate the warrants.

Education is the most important tool, so I care about how much an individual learns in each round and I'll try to give as much advice as I can after making my decision.

Cross-ex and your behavior matter. If you a jerk, I won't hesitate to tell you or dock points. I pay attention to questions and answers. If a point is made, you should use it in your constructive/rebuttals. I realize it's a competitive activity, but please be courteous to others since we're all members of the same community. Seriously.

Since I'm human, I inevitably have some preferences -

T - I enjoy debating it on very technical levels, but I don't think it would be the easiest debate to judge since most debaters (including myself) aren't always the neatest when keeping the flow organized. I will definitely vote on the argument if smart arguments are made and properly impacted in terms of real world debate. Always answer the question: What would happen to the topic/debate community? when you are trying to explain your impacts on either side.

DAs - Since I was first taught DA + Case, I think the debate on that level is easiest to understand and is the most interesting to judge. I've run politics my whole debate career, so it's not a foreign concept, but I think I expect more analysis on it given the amount I debated it. It's important for you to tell me how to view offense and defense in the round since I will adapt accordingly. For example, I do not necessarily think you need to win issue-specific uniqueness to win a link turn, but you must articulate how that is possible to win that offense. A 2A should always have defense on an DA impact.

CPs - I'm okay with any CPs, but I like ones that are germane to the plan. I have a high threshold for specific theory arguments like PICs Bad or Conditions Bad if the CP seems specific and their is a warrant for its questionably abusive element. On the flip side, I think that theory arguments could be used strategically to undermine the other teams answers/argument and are obviously a time tradeoff so make them. I can be swayed any way on international fiat, but most of time, I believe it is a reason to reject the argument. When I think a team is winning a CP and there is NB, I'll default offense-defense unless told otherwise.

Ks - I enjoy them, but I don't have much experience running them. Explanation please! I appreciate smart analytic arguments in 2ACs. I side with the aff on shifty alternatives. Specific perms are preferable unless they're vague since the alt is so vague.

Case - I love impact turns. They're the best. I think case defense should always be in the 1NC. In my opinion, too many teams under-utilize case in rounds. Make sure case arguments are frictional with your off case impacts or CP solvency.

Theory - I don't like it so much… however I will vote on it if need be. I'm more sympathetic to a team who reads conditionality against a team reading 5+ advocacies; however, negation theory is where it's at. I think argumentative irresponsibility is compelling if actually explained and impacted. I think that a team should definitely get 1 conditional CP and 1 conditional K since they provide two different means for education and discussion in a round. The 2AC should be strategically adapted according to the arguments and I don't think that is necessarily hard to do. If it really is, then performative contradictions should either be a standard on conditionality or it's own theory voting issue that is extended in the 1AR. Lastly, tell me if I can kick the CP for you when you're neg going for a conditional CP.
  