
  Three full years of Policy Debate at Chandler High School. I enjoy many things in life, but mainly Yankees baseball and Seinfeld. If you are a Red Sox fan, I will talk trash before and after rounds.

Quick Points:
Speed is fine, but be clear.I like story-telling in the last speeches. Give the story of the whole debate and why YOU should win.Simply extending arguments is not an argument itself. Give the warrants as to why that argument is being extended.Tag-team CX is fine with me, but I do not want the person who should be prepping answering/asking all the questions. Use that time wisely.Prep ends the seconds the flash drive leaves the port. If you have to put more files onto the flash drive, don't ask, just do it quickly.All arguments are fine with me.I love quality organization of the speech, it can earn you some speaker points.
Overall Speaking:
Be mean to your opponents, I'll be mean to your speaker points.Aggressiveness with a purpose.Ask quality questions, do not waste this valuable time.If you end CX early, I have a box full of trouble for you.I like jokes, puns anything to make it engaging and fun. That being said, I do not want 3 minutes of puns and jokes.
Arguments:

Case:
Neg: Love it. Well-thought out case arguments really help you as a debater and show your knowledge of the topic.Aff: The ability to organize your speech and answer case arguments will reward you massive brownie points. Creating new arguments in the 2AR will do the opposite, however.Topicality:
Tubular. I'm not familiar with T arguments in this topic, but that shouldn't stop you from running it.Disadvantages:
Swell. I like them, but do not run bogus DA's just for the fun of it. Make sure the DA's are strategic.Counterplans:

Sweet nectar. I enjoy all types of CP's, but the same advice goes for CP's as DA's. I really like when the neg block explains the internal and/or external net benefits of the CP.Kritiks:
Sehr gut. I like all Kritiks, but do not run K's that you do not understand youself. For me to even vote on it, I must be able to understand the argument based on the arguments you present.Theory:
Awesome sauce. In addition to utilizing it as a voting issue, I like teams that couple their theory with other arguments to justify/extrapolate key arguments to give them the edge on contested issues. I have a high threshold on using theory as a reason to vote aff/neg; give me a compelling, (more than just a blip) reason why I should vote for you.Lastly, have fun and learn. Speech and Debate is an enriching activity and you should utilize it to its maximum potential. If you have any questions, you can always talk to me after round. 
  