
  Jon Panella
Been judging LD for 3 years
Affiliated with Burleson High School

Philosophy: I am very much a traditional judge in that I vote primarily on the value/criterion. Whichever debater does a better job of supporting their value with their criterion will likely win the debate. I don't mind theory to an extent but not at the expense of debating the actual resolution. I will look very closely on whether you are debating the resolution as written and not being tangential.

Kritiks: I will listen to them but typically they do not sit well with me. Not having been a trained debater, I feel the Kritik takes away from the enjoyment and clarity of the debate and although I have voted for them, I have a prediliction against them.

Speed: I can normally keep up with speed but I do not think that it helps a debater and I will look for quality of arguments over quantity of arguments. I will warn you if you are going to fast for me to flow and will expect you to adjust appropriately but I have not had to do this yet. This does not mean that I want a slow debate, just make sure that the arguments you make are adding to the case not just window dressing.

Behavior: I do enjoy clash during CX but will not stand for abuse. If you are abusive, expect to get VERY low speaks. I will not stand for ad hominem attacks. Debate the opponent's case NOT the opponent themselves.

Decision: Please give me your voters, I may not agree with them but I want to hear why YOU feel you won the debate. You do not want me to wade through the arguments to make the decision. I believe it is your job to tell me the path to take to vote in your favor. Do not try to convince me after the debate, do it during your time with your voters and then leave it to me.

Speaker Points: I rarely give perfect speaks. I tend to start at about 27-28 and work either direction from there. If I feel like you are talking at me vs. talking to me, your score will be lower. Clarity will be the primary driver of your score, so take this into account with your speed and volume.
  