
  Mediocre Policy debater at Eagan High School, MN (2004-2008)
Assistant Coach at Eagan High School (2008-)

QUICK GUIDE TO ADAPTATION (12/17/2015)
0. Run what you want, but be prepared to defend it. It's not my job to decide if an argument is morally repugnant, it's yours. No argument is an auto-loss (consult counterplans come pretty close, though).
1. Organize your speeches. I like numbers and letters. I especially like when those numbers and letters are used in later speeches to refer to arguments. "Embedded clash" doesn't flow well for me.
2. Links matter. If you can't demonstrate a link to the plan/advocacy, the position will not matter to me. The state is not a link. Not talking about something is not a link. The wrong starting point is not a link. "Surveillance is controversial" is a link, but a weak one. (If you're on the other side of these arguments, make no link arguments or simple permutations. I'll vote on them.)
3. Fairness doesn't need an external impact and is my default highest priority on theoretical issues. If you're not defending the resolution as an affirmative, you will need a good explanation for why this is fair for the negative.
4. I tend to ignore claims when they lack warrants. "Role of the ballot" claims are especially vulnerable to this process.

Debate is a game and the goal of the game is to have the better argument. I evaluate all speech made in a round through this lens (including "role of the ballot" claims) and am mostly implacable with regards to that opinion. Here are some specifics:

GENERAL
The resolution? Yes. I think it’s easily defended, but have voted for affirmatives that explicitly don’t defend it.
Performance / non-traditional speeches? Yes, but I’ll be way more impressed if they’re topical or responsive to case.
Cheap shots? Probably, but they need to have an impact.
Calling cards? No.
Speaker points? 27. 26.5 when the weather’s bad.
How do I decrease my speaker points? You’re impolite in non-productive ways or act in ways that show you don’t care about the round or your opponents.
How do I increase my speaker points? More if you make strategic decisions, spend a lot of time on case, make the 1NR matter, get me to vote on an argument I dislike, or conduct a great cross-examination.
What if the tournament provides a set of speaker point guidelines? I will follow those. Very judiciously. You'll probably end up with fewer points on average.
Speed? Yes, but put appropriate pauses between tag, cite, and evidence to increase speaker points and likelihood that I’ll be able flow your arguments. Slow down for analytics and especially for theory.
Will you yell "clear" at me or ask me to slow down? Clarity is on you. I'm pretty transparent (just not audibly transparent) when I can't flow you, so look up once in awhile.
How many issues in a debate? “When accessorizing, always take off the last thing you put on.”
Line-by-line debate? Yes. I flow in the usual way, so letting me know where to put your arguments is great if you want me to keep track of what they are.
What constitutes an argument? Tag-line extensions may be enough to "keep an argument alive," but I will likely ignore any analysis in later speeches that is outside what is said in the extension. I am especially harsh on 1ARs here.
Spin vs. evidence? Spin is the game. I will vote on things I know to be untrue if the other team isn't calling you out on it.
Offense-defense paradigm? No. I can and will vote on nothing but case defense if the impact is *literally* zero solvency / harms. Even just severely mitigated case is enough for me if it's explained well.
Uniqueness/Link/Impact? Focus on the links. Uniqueness debates bore me if they’re solely post-date arguments, and reading a bunch of impacts is only worthwhile when a position is completely dropped. Compelling link stories make me really happy.
Tag-team cross-examination? It will lower your speaker points if it’s excessive.
Prompting? No, unless your partner's about to drop the permutation.
Is "flashing" prep time? No. I would prefer that you have the speech document on the flash drive before I stop prep time, but in practice, if everyone saves and moves files pretty quickly, just tell me to stop prep time when you're finished modifying the file.
2NRs? I am your biggest advocate and regularly ignore 2AR arguments if I think they're the slightest bit new.
Do you disclose your decision? Yes, unless directed not to.
Will you give an oral critique? Yes. I will also write how I decided the round on the ballot, and in some cases, additional comments where warranted.

SPECIFIC ARGUMENTS
Preferred negative strategies (sorted by likeliness to vote, high to low)? T > case + DA > DA + CP > K + anything > CP that only competes via politics > other theory > case impact turns
Kritiks? Yes, most familiar with Foucault, Heidegger and the development literature and comfortable with other critiques of state power and political economy. You’ll probably need to spend a lot more time on the link level on less straightforward authors.
Alternatives? Don’t need to have them, I’m comfortable with kritiks argued as a “gateway issue.”
Politics? Yes, but I am more willing to listen to intrinsicness arguments here than anywhere else.
Consult / Conditions CP? Not if you want to increase your chance of winning. “Perm: Do the counterplan,” is usually enough for me here. “Severing immediacy of plan” is maybe my least favorite argument.
PICs? Yes (I’ll still consider PICs bad theory, though).
Floating PICs? Yes, but the earlier the better if you don’t want to send me into a shame spiral. You’ll want some sort of solvency evidence if you don’t want these claims easily dismissed.
Exclusionary frameworks? Yes, but you’re probably going to need a pretty good defense of why a particular argument should be excluded. If your framework is something along the lines of “the team that does X the best,” where X is the impact of your argument, the other team will barely have to breathe on this argument to make it go away. I am similarly unimpressed with claims about education made to defend a "scary Ks bad, policy good"-type framework. I've voted on all these arguments, though.
Evolutionary psychology arguments? You’ll get anywhere from a 1-3 point drop in speaker points if you make one, but I will consider them.
Realism? Doesn’t answer much, but you’re IR savvy and know that already.
Focus on process / policy paralysis? I don't particularly like this as an impact because it seems pretty difficult to compare to other impacts.
Moral imperatives / ethics / value to life impacts? Have a good reason why I shouldn't compare this directly to the # of dead bodies or use them as a trump with other impacts, because unless they're dropped you're going to lose vs. big wars.
Other stuff you're concerned about? Ask me before the round.

THEORY
Preferred theory arguments (sorted by likeliness to vote, high to low)? Topicality > justification > good plan flaws > FIAT theory (object, international, 50 state, etc.) > counterplan topicality theory > counterplan type theory (consult, PICs, conditions) > advocacy dispositionality theory (conditionality, etc.) > exclusionary frameworks (policymaking good, etc.) > specification > vagueness (alternatives and plans) > permutation theory > bad plan flaws
Theory as a voter? Yes, but probably more strategic and useful as a way of getting rid of arguments you don’t know how to answer on substance.
Affirmative theory? Yes, but Actual Abuse™ is probably the most persuasive tool for you here.
Topicality? Yes. It’s my favorite argument and no affirmative is “gut-feeling” topical. I like contextual definitions and lots of work on the standards.
Reverse voters on topicality? See "Cheap shots" above and raise the threshold a couple notches.
Permutations? They’re tests of competition. If they’re argued to be advocated, pretty likely easily dismissed by a “moving target” claim.
Philosophically competitive advocacies? Please no.
Severance perms? Things OK to sever: ideological reasons for doing plan, "immediacy" of plan, "certainty" of plan; Things not OK to sever: entire plan planks
Intrinsic perms? I'm willing to hear "logical policymaker"-type arguments.
Permutation texts? They should probably exist if it's not a logical or obvious permutation. I don't find "Perm: Do plan and all non-competitive portions of the alternative" very persuasive and this is one of the reasons.
  