
  (copied-and-pasted from NDCA)

Basics - I enjoy listening to debates where the teams involved make warranted, well-articulated link and impact arguments. I don't have any real dispositions, but I did spend the majority of the year reading critical arguments on the aff and the neg.

important stuff..

CPs - theoretical legitimacy is up for debate -
If you are READY TO DEFEND multiple conditional CPs or weird PICs, etc.. feel free to run them.

Ks - 'Agamben' 'Bare Life' and all of that other jargon is completely meaningless to me. You will not win a K debate in front of me by repeating these words over and over again yelling "the aff dropped eoifjeoifjeoj"

2NR on the K needs to explain
A) The links -
B) The impacts -
C) How the impacts affect the 1AC impact (i.e. Does is outweigh? Does it turn the case? etc)
D) The function of the alt.

Generally I find well-explained critique turns the case arguments to be very persausive.

Framework - This is pretty important. If you are reading a critical aff or some K on the negative - I think there needs to be an explanation of the 'role of the ballot' or the function of the debate EARLY.
Aff - this means starting the debate in the 1AC whether implicitly or explicitlyNeg - I think you have more flexibility on this question, but it's nice to here "the impact to voting aff means X in our framework" sometime during the block.
For the Anti-K Frameworkers - I generally really enjoy these debates. I feel EVIDENCE is immensely helpful when debating the FW - BUT REMEMBER - Winning the FW does not mean voting for you - You need to explain
A) the reason why it has to be a voting issue.
B) why their impacts become irrelevant in your framework.

Otherwise, I tend to feel (for policy affs) that winning the framework just means you get to weigh your case impacts vs. the K.


T - I love a good T debate - I default competing interpretations - 'CI - we're the only topical case' IS NOT AN ARGUMENT - as long as there is an answer, it is doubtful I will vote on this argument.

Also - Nothing beats a good PIC NB strategy, so don't think I'm adverse to hearing you're sweet policy strats!
  