
  Katrina Papatriantafyllou, Mukwonago WI 
 
 
Paradigm - Policy judge  

Speed
It’s acceptable that you'll have to speak faster than you normally would – I get it. Auctioneer-style, however, is unacceptable. If your reading the tags as fast as you read the cards, chances are I won’t realize you moved to a new piece of evidence. If you move to new stock issues, such as Harms or Advantages, make it clear. I will announce you’re speeding once by stating “clear.” If you continue to read too fast, I will stop flowing your speech.

Topicality
Topicality must be credible argument. Identify abuse. Explain arguments you can’t run, and what education you are losing. If the AFF has disclosed their case/plan prior to the round, negative can not claim that they can’t predict the affirmative or have nothing against it. Explain why topicality should be a voting issue in this round. “Topicality is a voter for fairness, jurisdiction and education”—explain what this means. Present a clear story of the abuse and explain why I should vote against that abuse. If you read topicality on the word “The” or “by,” I don’t listen. Do not run as a time suck. 

DisAdvantages 
Tell me in your Road Map that you will be reading DA’s, or I won’t flow them the way they should be. Clearly state the Link, Uniqueness, and Impact, or it may not have a lot of weight in the round since I won’t know what the evidence is saying. Also, clearly sign post your cards and your DA’s. Emphasize real impacts.

New Arguments in the 2NC 
Brand new Off-Case Arguments are allowed in the 2NC by justifying why they are being provided. If you run these without justification, and the Affirmatives call abuse in the 1AR, I will agree with them.

Splitting the Neg Block
You may split the neg block, but I do give some 1AR leniency.

Counter-plans 
CP’s MUST be Non-Topical. Make sure I know it is clearly a counter-plan. If you get up and read evidence about your counter-plan, but fail to state it’s a counter-plan, I’ll flow it as regular evidence.

Kritiks / Critics 
Provide a scenario that shows how your Kritik deconstructs the AFF side, using strong evidence and arguments. Stating “not real world” or “there’s no way” is not a substitute for your lack of preparation.

Weigh the Round 
Your rebuttal should write and sign the ballot for me. 
  