
  I debated one year of novice policy and three years of varsity LD for Wayzata High School in Minnesota. I attended the TOC in 2009. As of Fall 2013, I am a graduate student in political science at UCLA.

 My involvement in debate has declined dramatically since graduating high school. I don’t attend many tournaments. Consequently, that means that I don’t judge very often. When I debated, I could keep up with anything, but since I’ve been out of the activity, I am less used to listening to your machine gun speed. Fast debate is good, but lightning speed debate is not. You should probably aim for the 6-7 range (out of 10) if you are clear. Good fast debate is still better than good slow debate. I’ll yell clear. I might also yell "slow down" if "clear" doesn't seem to be working. You know you're in trouble if I stop typing. I reward debaters who pay attention to their judge. I tend to be more of an expressive judge than not. I'm not going to nod excessively, but I will indicate if you should move on. 

In general, I want debate to be about the topic. Non-topical arguments include theory, skeptical arguments that could be run on any resolution (i.e. justice/morality doesn't exist), and performance arguments (i.e. arguments about some marginalized group in the debate community). My experience is that the best/most enjoyable rounds to watch and/or judge are ones about the topic. Judging theory is painful. Judging a BAD theory debate is excruciating. 

That being said, I don't want to intervene. I'm not going to automatically vote you down for running these arguments, but I am much more comfortable evaluating the round on the resolution.You're running these arguments at your own risk (in terms of loss/speaker points). I can evaluate these arguments, I just really don't want to. Please don't make me.

Other things you want to know:

Read critical philosophy at your own risk. Heidegger barely makes sense when I read it slowly; how do you expect anyone to comprehend it at top speed?

I think pre-standards arguments are silly because there's rarely a reason for them to be pre-standard. I also think you sound even sillier when you call them "a prioris"

I don't want to call cards. It's become a crutch for debaters to be less clear and sloppy. You want me to do as little work as possible. I'm not interested in making your arguments for you. I'll call a card if there's serious dispute over the text. Don't tell me to call a card and read the warrants after the round; read/explain the warrants to me yourself.

How to win my ballot (and earn 28+ speaks): Make smart arguments; make explicit comparisons between arguments and cards; clearly impact all arguments back to some evaluative standard (burden/criterion/standard); weigh arguments comparatively (don’t just say I outweigh on timeframe, tell me why that matters more than the fact they’re outweighing on magnitude)

In general, I want to see smart debate. The best debaters are ones who understand how arguments interact with other arguments on the flow. Don't lose the forest for the trees.

How to lose my ballot: Failure to be comparative, forcing some form of intervention; miscutting evidence and being called out on it; using uniqueness cards that are severely outdated or postdated; being such an asshole that I will look for any possible way to vote against you

Arguments I have a higher threshold for voting on: Potential abuse theory (I like theory to be about real abuse only); disclosure theory; RVI; any activist position, especially if your ballot story hinges on my personal decision in this round; anything not about the topic

Arguments that will earn you lower speaker points if I have to vote on them: Any kind of skepticism, generic K’s of the resolution (justice/morality doesn’t exist); determinism; pre-standards arguments; presumption arguments; unnecessary theory (the only way you’ll win this is if your opponent drops it); any generic argument that doesn’t demonstrate you actually researched this topic.

Arguments that will earn you L 20 if you run them: racism good, sexism good, genocide good, any bad-ism good; anything else that I find offensive and I reserve the right to call you out on an extremely offensive argument not listed here. What we say in round DOES matter. You're a person first and a debater second and I want you to remember that.

Speaker Points: I start at 27 and move up or down from there. You will get a 28 if I think you are good enough at debate to break. You will get above that if I think you performed spectacularly in round and did everything or nearly everything perfectly. You will get 26-27 if I think you still have some/many areas that need improvement. You will get below a 26 if the round was bad. Remember that I will also dock speaker points for running arguments that I hate and forcing me to vote on them, regardless of how competent you are.

P.S. I was a Classics major as an undergrad. Look up the definition of “a priori” before coming into round and use it appropriately. Your bastardization of Latin makes Kant cry.
  