
  Tami Parker
Coach - Lovejoy HS

General:

Paradigm: I am a mostly traditional judge in all debate events. My students would tell you I am "old school" I tend to think I will listen to most any argument, but I probably lean mostly to the Stock side for CX and Traditional for LD.

Speed: I don't like it - I am a "by the flow" judge. What that means is that I flow what you say - if you are speaking at speed that you can not enunciate, communicate, or be understood I can't write down what you are saying. I won't finish arguments for you or write down what I think you meant to say or what I think you should have said. If you must read through your evidence quickly SLOW DOWN AND BE CLEAR WITH YOUR TAG LINES. 

Kritiks: I will listen to K's BUT they have to be logical to the round. I will not vote on a performance K - I really won't even listen to them. K's still have to be arguable and give ground for both sides of the debate. 

Style: I look for clarity, being polite with your partner and your opponent, clear arguments that are linked to your resolution, no eye rolling or extra sounds during your opponents speech. 

CX: Control your CX time, but be polite - no need to be rude. In Policy Debate - open CX is ok if the tournament is ok with it and both teams agree on it before hand. It is not ok for one partner to answer all of the questions

Arguments: Need to be clear. Give me a road map. Sign Post - tell me where you are - which argument you are rebuilding or refuting. Give me voters in your last speech

Technology/Paperless: This is great - no problem. Have a copy of your case, be willing to flash your case or have a viewing computer for the other team. I do understand that sometimes technology can be a challenge - glitches and all. I will allow flash time not against your prep time, but if I feel that you are taking advantage of that time I will start deducting the time from your prep.

Time Suck Arguments: General arguments that you don't plan to pursue and are just going to drop in a later speech please don't bother running it - that irritates me.


LD: LD is a value debate. You must show me how your contentions uphold your V and VC

Policy: I will listen to most anything, but I lean to the Stock side.

PF: This is an "every man's debate" Your use of "debate" terminology should be minimum - all arguments should be clear.
  