
  Experience
3 years of high school policy debate, 2 years of college policy debate, 5 summers coaching high school debate, been judging off and on since 2009.

Generally
I started out as a policy-style debater (traditional Affs, CP/DA Neg strats), then migrated to kritikal/performance-style debate. I'm open to all styles and arguments, though. The biggest problem I usually see is a lack of big-picture analysis. I'm willing to do the work for you at the end of the debate, but you might not like the outcome. Dropped arguments don't dictate how I vote unless they are impacted. Spreading is fine, just slow down a little for the tags and signpost when you're switching flows. (I'll yell "clear" if I can't understand you.)

CP/DA
CP's should be competitive. If you can't give me a logical explanation as to why the permutation doesn't solve, I'm going to err Aff. Make sure to clearly delineate the net benefit(s) to the CP. Impact analysis is crucial. I need a clear picture at the end of the debate as to what the world of the Affirmative looks like in comparison to what the world of the Negative looks like.

Kritiks
Make sure you have good, strong links. If I feel like you're stretching it, I'm going to err Aff. I'm down with whatever alternative you want to advocate for - meditating, rejecting, dancing, etc. Just make sure to explain exactly what the alternative is solving for and how.

Performance
Just make sure to clearly articulate the purpose of the performance.

Framework
Framework is crucial in kritikal/performance-style vs. policy-style debates. For me, if you lose framework, you lose the round. Make sure to give analysis outside of your blocs. I need to know why fiat/USFG action/etc. is good/bad and why the other team's logic is flawed.

Topicality
I think it's mostly common sense when topicality is really an issue. I'm totally fine with you running it as a time-suck, but maybe don't go for it unless the Aff drops it or they are clearly not topical. If you're going for it, give me real examples and contextual explanations of the ground/education/fairness lost.

Theory
I'm not the biggest fan of theory arguments. Be sure to do a lot of impact analysis if you're going for it.
  