
  Background
 I competed in policy debate at the high school level for four years at Wilbur D. Mills University Studies High School in Central Arkansas. During college I transitioned to Parliamentary Debate and competed nationally for 2 years at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville. I have judged around 20 rounds on this year's topic, but would not consider myself an expert on the resolution. I studied political science with a focus on international relations during my collegiate career, but do not consider myself an interventionist. If you have any questions please feel free to ask me before round. 

The Basics
 I am of the opinion that debate is an forum for the freedom of expression. That being said, it is your time to use however you want, I only ask politely as a casual observer that your coaches have deemed educated enough to judge objectively that you don't waste our time. What wastes our time? Rudeness. Incomprehensible speeches. Flashing speeches at a rate of 3 minutes per speech. I have always enjoyed debate at the policy level because it is a forum for students to express themselves freely and without fear of repercussion. This is often interpreted to meant that I am a fan of performance affirmatives, but in reality I am simply a fan of discourse that promotes understanding, development, and education. I feel that the best debates occur when each side respectfully promotes alternative points of view and forces me to evaluate their differing positions, as opposed to rounds involving antagonistic strategies and “time sucks”. I would rather have fully-informed debates about one topic than accelerated info-sessions that graze over 8 topics, but there is room for both. Like I said before, this is your time. Do with it as you please.

How do I feel about generic arguments? I dunno... how do you feel about generic carpeting? However, this is how I feel about arguments with no links.

EDIT: On the topic of speed in the debate round: The practice of not flowing speeches in round and instead relying on the flashing of speeches to provide a flow for you, in my opinion, causes an acceleration of speed to the point that is often incomprehensible. This activity is based on communication of ideas, and thus should at least be mildly understandable. If you choose to spread through analytics and tags I cannot be expected to be able to flow it and may either completely disregard what I cannot understand, or if I am feeling generous and/or bored, I may ask that the speech is flashed to me. 



P.S. Bonus points for X-Files references. Or Game of Thrones. 



  