
  While I've been in this activity for right at 20 years as a competitor/coach, I haven't judged a round or paid attention to a topic for the past two years. I've been doing other exciting things in my life besides coaching! Grapevine is my first tournament to judge in 2 years and I'm still catching up on the topic. If your strategy depends on my having been at institute and read the same books you read, you may be out of luck.

That being said, my thoughts about debate haven't changed considerably. I can flow whatever and am knowledgeable on most debate issues, except kritiks. If that's your strategy, just know I will do my best to understand and keep up with you, but you will likely need to explain a little in non-kritik terms, especially at the beginning of the argument. I'll listen to anything and do my very best to sort it out and make the right decision. I tend to be biased against morally offensive arguments. You'll be able to see it on my face!

I prefer a counterplan/disad debate to a kritik debate. I prefer a topicality debate that centers on ground loss. It doesn't matter if it's in the round or potential abuse. Just because there is literature doesn't make the aff topical. I'm one of those old school judges who still thinks topicality is an argument to vote negative on! :) I prefer arguments not to be contradictory. I prefer kritiks to have an alternative. I find I generally like to vote to do something rather than just sit and do nothing (reject). I like politix debates. I like good case debate. I'm not the debate community expert on the theory of framework. If it's your strategy - you'll need to explain to me in real people - not debate people - terms. 

I don't like to read cards after the round. I believe it's your job to make the argument, not just let me interpret the evidence - you may not want me to do that! You need to spend the extra seconds in the last two rebuttals telling me what the evidence says.

Be nice. Speaker points will reflect any rudeness in the round. Smile and have fun! Feel free to ask any questions in the round.
  