
  About me:
I debated for four years in high school, but I don't judge much in college, so don't expect me to know the topic and its various acronyms. Speed is fine for the most part as long as you are very clear, especially on taglines and authors. I will say "Clear" or "Slow Down" once or twice if I can't understand you, and after that I will just stop flowing. I ran Ks and straight-up/policy arguments, and also some performance, so I'm fine with any type of argument as long as it is well-defended.

Arguments:
As I said above, Ks and Policy arguments are both fine. Both in the same round are fine as long as you can defend condo and performative contradictions.
Performance is fine when done in an intelligent and meaningful way.
Blatantly offensive arguments like "Racism Good", "Patriarchy Good", and "Babies with disabilities should be killed" (yes, that has been said), will lose you the round.
Any racist/sexist/homophobic/otherwise offensive statements will at the very least lose you speaker points and could lose you the round.
Being a jerk will lose you speaker points. Be respectful to your partner, me, and the other team.

T and Theory:
Be extra slow and clear. If I don't get something on my flow, even if it's on your written blocks and you claim to have said it, I won't take it into account in my decision.
Theory - if you're going to go for it, you need to give me a really good reason to vote on it. I don't recommend going for it unless it actually made a significant difference in the round.
T - I don't default neg on potential abuse, you need to give me a reason to vote on potential or actual abuse.
T IS NOT A REVERSE VOTER.
NEG: please go for only one argument (unless it's CP + DA or something + case) at the end of the round. Nothing annoys me more than having to sift through 4 completely different arguments and weigh them against each other.
Paperless:
Paperless teams must provide a viewing computer. If you refuse to give the other team a laptop you will be dropped. If the other team has a laptop it is fine to flash your speech over. I do not take prep time for flashing files, but I expect both teams not to steal prep while it is happening.

Other/Miscellaneous:Clash and line-by-line debating are important.
Impact calc, impact calc, impact calc. Do it. Make my ballot easy to write.
  