
  I debated for four years on the national circuit for Trinity Prep and I'm currently a student at Georgetown University.


Arguments: My paradigm isn't the most shocking: I prefer a comparative valuation of the round, and I default to that evaluation. Extend arguments fully. Arguments and extensions with unarticulated warrants and impact will be ignored.


Speaks: As long as you're not being extremely offensive (e.g. racial slurs), completely incoherent/disorganised, or being straight up rude, your speaks should be fine.


Speed: Going quickly is fine, but if I'm unable to discern one word from another, that's too fast. If you are incomprehensible, I'll say "clear" once. If you remain incomprehensible, I'll just drop my pen and wait for you to look up. I also ask you speak loudly and clearly. I will tell you to be louder once if necessary.


A prioris: I don't give a lot of weight to a prioris because I'm frankly not a huge fan of them. If they are run, they have to have a very clear reason for why they are preclusive and no-risk. I'll bite and vote, but your speaks may suffer.


Theory: Theory is fine provided there is actual abuse in round. I tend to look down on reading theory when there is clearly no abuse because it distracts from a good debate is usually a cop out, but I'll vote on it if the violation is won. Please make sure to explicitly extend the link between the standard and the voter or theory goes bye-bye. I also hate blippy theory. (Read: take the time to develop it properly.)


Critical arguments: I have mixed feelings about them. I'm not a fan of dense rhetoric in cards, but I do appreciate a clever position. I will be willing to flow virtually whatever you present, just make sure to explain it to me well in your speeches. If I don't understand and argument, I'm not going to vote on it. Ks are not my favourite unless they are very well warranted and explained.


Presumption: I do not presume without sufficient warrants as to why I should. Even then, I'm still not wild about presumption arguments.


Miscellaneous: You'll probably know whether I'm following what you're saying or not/how I'm feeling about your arguments by my facial expressions. If I don't understand, expect to receive a look of confusion.
  