
  About Me:
 I am a first year in college, and debate for the University of Georgia 
I debated at Houston County High School for 4 years
I have debated on the Military, Space, Transportation and Economic Engagement Topics in High School
I have debated as a 1A 2N my whole entire debate career
My email is, flora5796@gmail.com, if you have an other questions


A couple of things that are VERY important to me --
  CLARITY, CLARITY, CLARITY. I can't stress this enough, do not sacrifice your clarity for speed, it WILL NOT get you better speaker points.Be nice -- there is a big difference between holding your own and being aggressive when needed vs. being down-right mean/rude. Don't do the latter. Do not steal prep, I have debated the majority of my debate career paperless, I know all the tricks and will be able to tell. Don't do it -- it's not cool, and you will lose speaker points. So to prevent this, prep time ends when the USB is out of the computer. FLOW FLOW FLOW FLOW FLOW. If I see you just sitting there when you should be flowing I will dock points. Flowing is a very important skill to learn if you want to further your debate career, this includes the 2AR --> flow it, it will help you with rebuttal re-dos later, I promise. Comparative impact analysis in the 2NR and 2AR is VERY important, have a connection moment with me and tell me exactly where to vote. I like humor - but don't make those awkward analogies that have nothing to do with anything...those are just awkward...Warrant Comparison (NOT CLAIM COMPARISON), Line-by-line and Impact Analysis. DO IT. DO IT. DO IT. I don't like calling for cards and by doing these things I won't have to either :)
Topicality 
 I love a good T debate, these can be fun if debated properly. Don't just spew a bunch of T jargon out there hoping it makes sense, understand what you're talking about. If you want me to have a good flow of T...slow down a bit, it's very hard to flow everything on T when you are going guns blazing! And just like any other flow in the debate round do line-by-line and make sure you impact the T debate. 


Disadvantages
 I am a huge fan of DA's! For this to be a good debate of the DA you need to do link work -- the DA and affirmative should probably interact in some way, show me how. Comparative analysis is also very important, and if you end up going for the DA in the 2NR make sure you do impact comparisons. Why is the impact to the DA worse than the aff's impacts? Magnitude? Time frame? Probability? IMPACT CALC! HUZZAH!
Note: I love the politics DA. LOVE LOVE LOVE <333 

Counter-plans
 Generic CP's are boring, but if that is your strat don't let me stop you. I like good advantage counter plans, those make debates interesting. Big thing: when reading the counter plan text slow down, especially if it has more than one plank, or make sure you explain it later.


Theory
 Do not speed through theory, especially if it ends up becoming a huge deal in the round. I need to be able to flow the standards so sacrificing a bit more time on theory is important. If theory ends up becoming a huge part of the debate, make sure you compare your standards to their's and IMPACT them. And like on T, prove some in round abuse if you want me to vote on it.
Specifically Condo: I feel like 2 conditional advocacies is fair, anything more is probably abusive.

Kritik
 I am what you would consider a "policy debater." Most of my 2NR's involve a case and a DA, that being said I understand K's. I haven't read the literature, but don't be afraid to run it in front of me as long as it's not just a bunch of K-jargon. EXPLANATION is key if you want my ballot on the K flow. Do not just read a bunch of ready made blocks and hope that I get it. If you want me to understand and vote for the K, you need to understand it first.

Framework: Slow down -- it's important I understand your interpretation.

The link debate here is very important, I need to know how the K actually interacts with the affirmative. Also like I said above do not just read ready made K blocks, your link work should be specific to the round and the aff being run.

Affirmatives against the K: Your case is your baby. Weigh it against the K, don't get so bogged down by the K that you forget about case.

K-affs/ Performance debates/Something different:
 The college debate community is going through a lot of changes currently, and most of the debates I've participated in have had to do with kritical/performance type arguments so I'm definitely willing to listen. Explanation is key if you want my ballot in these type of rounds.
  