
  Nirav Patel
Affiliation: Richmond
Numbers of Rounds on Topic: 0
Years of participation in activity: 10

More or less, I have not judged a debate since March of 2005. I am
unaware of new trends in the activity and have – after three years of
reflection – developed a more clear view of my position as a critic,
supporter, and observer of debate.

The only predisposition I have is for good debates. I used to read a
lot of cards at the end of rounds but I think that's unfair to the
debaters. I will now place more value on logical arguments explained
by debaters and, if needed, reconcile those claims with warranted and
quality evidence that is extended by debaters. Yes, I know that
quality is a nebulous term but I prefer evidence that is written by
experts and top-tier newspapers.

Because I have not judged in a few years my flowing skills are
presumably a bit rusty. However, I will do my best to keep up with you
but if you are unclear and I warn you a couple times I will most
likely tune you out.

I have been absorbed in many of the topic related discussions at
different levels over the past two years and am excited about hearing
how debaters perceive particular events in the Middle East. I will
attempt – as much as a human can – to remain objective and to exclude
my personal biases about particular issues.

Performance: I am not against this genre of argumentation but believe
that it should be grounded in a fair and predictable interpretation of
the topic. From what I gather things are getting pretty radical in
debates. I would prefer a more analytically rigorous criticism of the
case grounded in a particular methodology than puppets ranting about
how much debate sucks.

I am a firm believer that debate provides invaluable skills for the
"real world." Policymaking good arguments are convincing but not
necessarily mutually exclusive with claims arguing for a need to
re-conceptualize how we approach decision making. In fact, I would
contend that those debates happen often in DC and capitals around the
world.

Impact calculus is critical. I know that many debaters have a set 2nc
overview that contends that nuclear outweighs all but that is
insufficient. As a debater you have to make impact arguments that are
within the context of the 1ac. For example, loss of US negotiating
credibility in the Middle East would jeopardize America's ability to
jumpstart the Two-State peace process which flips your advantage's
internal link claim….ADD SUBSTANCE HERE.

I am also in the camp that there is such thing as "ZERO RISK." You can
win a hundred percent "no link" against a DA and even if the negative
wins their impact I wouldn't vote for the DA. This requires you to
rigorously debate the merits of the link/uniqueness/impact.

It will be refreshing to hear debates again and if you any questions
please feel free to ask.
Nirav
  