
  My Experience: I am a 2nd year College policy debater for Liberty University. I’m a 2A and have generally done Policy things on the aff but my partner and I run 1 fem on the neg.
 
Judging Philosophy: I simultaneously think that the primary purpose of debate is education but I still think that debate is a game so even if an arg is super dumb I will vote on it if it is impacted well and the other team doesn’t answer it. I like the traditional policy framework but I am also impressed by people who can creatively cheat and win that they aren’t abusive. I don’t have a problem with Performance, K’s or anything else. Just win your arguments in front of me.
 
Specific Args:
 
T-I have a high threshold for T if the aff dropped one arg on the flow but they are obviously topical. Need to have examples of in round abuse. Potential abuse isn’t persuasive unless you make arguments as to why people will for sure exercise that abuse in the future. If the lit doesn’t allow for that type of abuse then you probably won’t win that potential abuse has a real impact.
 
K’s-Here’s a list of K’s that I am somewhat familiar with: Biopower, Cap, Fem, Black Socialism, Queer Theory, Death K, Nietzche, Security. This doesn’t mean that if you are running one of these that you don’t have to explain the links or the alt because I already understand the general story. If you want to go for the K without the Alt you have to say that in the 2NR; don’t assume I’ll do the work for you. I think links need to be specific. Even if you start with a generic link in the 1NC there should be more specific links in the block or at least make analytics that articulate a specific link. I will vote on vague alts bad if the aff goes for it and you can’t explain what your alt does. If the aff is making “X inevitable args”, the neg needs to specifically combat that because those are the most persuasive aff arguments against the K.
 
DA’s- I think the politics DA is dumb. Don’t think its core neg ground. I especially hate the Midterms DA (I have a Midterms DA bad theory violation) . I will still vote on it if you win it obvi. Make sure your DA is unique. I love it when 1NR’s get up and give an overview that shows how the impact of the DA turns all the specific impact scenarios of the aff.
 
CPs- It’s pretty abusive to run multiple CP’s. CP’s whose net benefit is a plan flaw are super dumb and I probably won’t vote for them. I think that a CP with multiple planks is like having multiple CP’s and if you run the planks conditionally that’s also pretty abusive. I think it justifies the aff perming every combination of the planks and the Neg having to answer why each of those isn’t competitive. Consult CP’s are dumb.
 
Theory-Aff’s should be in the direction of the topic. Win in round abuse and why that abuse is bad for education. If a team extends theory in the 1AR without an impact then the 2AR can’t go for it. I don’t think the 1AR has to say “voter” if they extend the impact and said why its bad for debate in order for the 2AR to go for it. If you go for theory in the 2AR you should spend at least 3 min on it unless the other team just totally dropped it. On Framework specifically, K affs don’t win just because they say that norms are oppressive. They have to win why the oppressiveness that norms cause outweighs education for real world interaction.
 
General Notes- I like confidence but don’t be a jerk. I will dock speaker points for jerkiness. I won’t vote on new 2A/2NR arguments make sure the 2AR lines up with the 1AR. Please split the block in a way that makes sense. Do line-by-line. Anaylsis is better than a bunch of cards.
 
Speaker Points:
 
I will increase your points if you make me laugh. Clarity while you are reading is important.
 I will increase your speaker points by .2 if you say “they hot conceded this arg and they cold conceded the other arg which means that they have double turned themselves”
 I will dock your speaker points if you say “vote for us cuz we read cards”
  
 0-26.5: you were really offensive.
 26.5-27: you struggled with the technicalitys of debate and you probably dropped a whole DA or you were a jerk.
 27-27.5: you’re okayish
 27.5-28: you’re okay and you explain your arguments with warrants
 28-28.5: you’re on top if it
 28.5-29: Both technically proficient and rhetorically persuasive. It’s a thing called “ethos”
 29-29.5: you rock. I am so impressed. You didn’t mess up at all
 29.5-30: Probably won’t happen but if my jaw drops in your Rebuttal then you might be scoring this high.
 

 

  