
  LD Philosophy:

I'm open to absolutely any argument. If you make it, I will evaluate it. I like well constructed critical arguments. I love logically sound analytical arguments on the flow. I'm just going to go over some things, any other questions you have, feel free to talk to me in person if you see me or before the round.

My philosophy is Tabula Rasa. 

Speed: Go as fast as you want. Be clear. If you aren't, I'll say clear once, then I'll stop writing.

Argumentation: I absolutely adore critical arguments. I'm fine with anything. You can run stock points, a counterplan, a disad, etc. in front of me as long as you justify it. I don't place a very heavy emphasis on the VC structure and I'll be much more likely to vote on the contention level than the framework unless there's a glaring issue. That said, being open to everything, weighing impacts is a must. You probably don't want me to intervene. I love philosophy. I love political points. 

Also, unique and nuanced arguments are a plus. If you present an interesting case position (notice I said interesting and not stupid), I will naturally have a tendency to pay closer attention since it's something new and interesting to me. Originality is definitely rewarded. 

Theory: I have a super high threshold for theory. Nothing is more unappreciated than throw-away theory. If I'm presented with garbage, time-filler theory arguments, I'll dock speaks and more than likely disregard the argument. It's a waste of everyone's time. That said, if there is a coherent abuse story, I'll vote off of theory. It has to be pretty definite though. 

Evidence: I more than likely will call for evidence after the round. My biggest problem with the event is that people essentially manipulate evidence to say what they want it to say. I'll take your word for it during the round. However, if I have my doubts after the round, and if they are confirmed, I won't consider any argument that was dependent on that specific card. Correctness is extremely important to me.

Most importantly, make sure everything links. And the quickest way to win my ballot is to link-turn or no-link your opponent's links. Shady, stretched links are far too over-utilized in this event. 

Also, I don't mind aggression. Just make sure that it's just that:aggression. Not rudeness. Honestly, it won't win or lose you the round barring extreme scenarios, but it will take a huge impact on speaks. But I do have a pretty high threshold for this kind of stuff. I totally understand it's a heated activity.
  