
  My Background: I began participating in debate my sophomore year of high school through my senior
year of high school. I did three years of policy debate in Wisconsin and the rest in Lincoln Douglas. For
the current debate season, I have consistently judged Lincoln Douglas debate rounds every weekend
since October. This year would be my 6th in the participation of the activity.

1. SPEED/FLOWING: perfectly fine though if I feel you are speaking too fast or unclear, I will yell “clear.” If you do not adjust, I will put my pen down and beyond that point, you’re on your own. I won’t pretend to flow your arguments when I cannot. If you know you tend to get messy, SIGN POST. Even if you are genuinely organized, sign post. HINT: if my pen is not in my hand, you’re doing something wrong.

2. ARGUMENTATION: I will pretty much vote on anything; theory, K, T, abuse but you need to do a really good job if you’re gonna argue abuse or call your opponent out on topicality. There are certain arguments I will “auto-drop” such as racist arguments, sexist, bigoted, otherwise unreasonable arguments. This is the one and only time I will intervene as a judge, I don’t vote for arguments that are oppressive. Line by line debate is best.

3. TIMING: Don't steal prep, be up speaking when you are supposed to be. If your time is up in any situation, you may finish your sentence or answer though you may not finish your question if you are in the middle of one. If you do not have a timer, let me know as it is not my job to time your speech.

4. Speaker Points: I use speaker points as a way to evaluate your correctitude, speed, and clarity. Moreover, I award points for good structure and configuration. If you do something dishonest, or if you are not considerate, you risk points. Receiving a 30 from me is not sacred; I do give them occasionally. You will be required to stand in round unless circumstances dictate otherwise. It's a matter of respect. It degrades the quality of competition when we pretend we don't have to look up or stand in a debate round.

5. VOTERS: Be clear, crystalize & weigh the round. Don't lie in voters to make it sound like you win, describe to me how I could justify voting for you in a real way taking into account the context of the round. I like a lot of impact calc. in the end, I’m really big on stressing the impacts. I love hearing them. I think a lot of times we have these contentions out there but we have to figure out why the judge should care. Basically I will vote the way you tell me to vote.

6. NOTE THAT: if I am still writing my ballot at the end of the round I will not disclose or give an oral kritik. If im not writing at the end I will be happy to give an oral kritik and disclose. If you want to know if your won or not feel free to find me after the round is over and I will be happy to disclose/discuss the round with you. Or if you have any general questions that would be fine.

If necessary you may contact me by email: payne.ely8@gmail.com
  