
  TG Pelham

Affiliation:
GSU
Druid Hills High School, Atlanta

I believe the most important skill in debate is the ability to listen to the other team, and then carefully evaluate the warrants, especially the internal links, of their arguments. Listening is key to clash and what’s debate without clash?

In the age of paperless debate, too often teams fail to listen/flow the other side, and assume that arguments were made. If a card is not read into evidence it does not exist. Furthermore, I am very reluctant to read cards after the round. The meaning of the card should be made clear during your speech. It is always my goal to listen carefully to your speech. It should be your goal to speak clearly so that I can understand what you say.

I try to be a tabula rasa judge. If you win an argument, or the argument is dropped, and you explain why this wins the ballot I will follow your instructions. However, because listening is so important, if both teams are making mistakes—dropping arguments—the team that demonstrates better critical analysis and clash picks up my ballot. This also applies to your 1NC strategy. If your goal is deploy as many off case arguments as humanly possible, don’t include a kritik—some arguments desire a little depth.

Topicality: I will vote on it as long as you explain why your interpretation is better and explain the consequences of that interpretation.

Counterplans: I want to hear a CP text that makes sense. I tend to agree that utopian fiat is bad for debate. Similarly the perm needs to make sense. Debates about theory only make sense to me when the argument is developed. You must tell me why something is a voting issue. I need your analysis, not just your assertion.

Kritiks: My background is in philosophy, so I tend to enjoy philosophical arguments/theory. However, you need explain the importance of the K. You need to win the link debate, and you need to have an alternative that is not totalizing.

Performance: I’m open to stretching the bounds of debate, but I need to know why debate is the appropriate format for your advocacy. Whatever your vision or re-conception/demystification, I need to be able to find a coherent purpose that will provide a ground from which to evaluate the experience, and a reason to say you “won” the round.
  