
  I debated all four years of high school and have been judging debate for the last eight years. I will make sure to be familiar with the topic when I judge. Although I like the fundamental LD, I understand it has molded into a new age and with the except of theory debate I am okay with its new form. 

Overview 
I prefer arguments & logic over never-ending line of cards. You should have evidence to back up your arguments but your entire constructive should not be solely cards. LD is a value oriented debate and I vote on value structure. However, that doesn’t mean you should ever drop your opponents contentions. In the same breath, if you can twist your opponents value to uphold your case that’s a big plus. Although, I am big believer in the value debate (it should flow through your entire case), I am open to the newer age debate, which the exception of theory. I am not a fan of theory debate – you should be talking about the resolved. I'm okay with K and topicality if you debate it well, I find it hard to debate it well but if you are effective in debating it I will vote for it. With that being said, do not abuse a novice. If you don’t think they will understand what a K or Topicality argument is, don’t use it to try and look better. That’s abusive and unnecessary.

Speed and Flow 
Spreading was not as prevalent when I debated but I do understand it is more common now. I am open to it if I can understand what you are saying. If I cant understand you and write what you are saying your arguments don’t matter. I can only judge what I can flow. With that being said, I can flow spreading to a decent degree. I have been judging for awhile and have picked up the trait. Clarity will always trump speed. I am very much a flow judge and if I cant flow it, it doesn’t count. In short, speed is okay as long as I can understand what you are saying. If I drop my pen and stare at you, your probably speaking to the point of me not understanding a word you are saying.

Extensions and voting issue
If you drop an argument, it is a drop period. You should always tell me why your argument is extended, don’t just say extend my argument. That goes the same way for calling drops. Always tell me why. Voting issues as a must.

Side Notes
Presentation counts toward speaker points. Be respectful of your opponents If you have an argument that might be offensive make sure your opponent is okay with itRefrain from arguing with me. I can't change my decision after I sign the ballot and I probably won't admit to judge intervention/making a bad decision if you get combative. 
If you have any questions please do not hesitate to ask me.
  