
  So I have 3 years of judging experience, but I mostly judge pufo and parli. I have judged plenty of league LD as well, but I am not up to par on all of the philosophy and the speed. That being said, I would consider myself a 'lay' judge.

Things I will drop you on:
1. If you aren't clear. If I can't understand your case or you, than I cannot vote for you. Simple as that. LD is very much a speaking event, and if I cannot understand you than I won't vote for you. So clarity is a major issue.
2. That being said, if I don't understand your points, than I won't vote for them. Clarity is necessary both from you speaking and from your cases content. If you are running some meta-ethic, post-modernism, some alternate moral construct other than deont/util, or just some deep philosophical arguments, than SLOW down and explain it in layman's terms. If you can't explain to me what your card means without using the card's rhetoric than I will most likely not understand it. Also it is better to cut out a contention or a card in order to slowly and clearly explain a different one.
3. If you spread on me I will drop you. End of story.
4. If you run a clearly abusive case. You can initiate theory - although I really hate offs and don't normally vote on theory unless the case is truly abusive - than clearly explain how it is abusive. If you run plan-bad, or any other terrible theory shell, I won't vote for you. We have all seen plans and what not in debate and thus they can't be abusive. Rather if their case IS truly abusive, and you have no possible argument to run against their case, or they are putting multiple burdens on you and there is a burden-skew, or something like that than I will accept theory and drop the abusive debater. This is very rare though.
5. You affirm judge-intervention. Debate is an activity based on skill, research, and thought. I should have NO say as to who wins except from analyzing the arguments made during the round. Judge-intervention is the dumbest paradigm I've ever heard of and I will not vote on it.

To get better speaks:
1. Stand during speeches
2. It is better to pause than to fumble and say umm a lot.
3. Don't get too repetitive unless you are clarifying or explaining something, otherwise it is better to just end your speech early.
4. Have clearly outlined voting issues
  