
  Scott Perreault, currently unaffiliated but have coached previously at Henry Sibley HS and Hopkins HS (both in MN) and debated in college. Double Diamond Key NFL Coach.
I started policy debate in 1974. I am a policy maker, and at the end of the round always ask the simple question, do I have an advantage to vote for? 
Judging on this topic has proved to be repeat round after round. Sure would like a case specific argument. I have voted equally aff and neg, but do have several predispositions to arguments. These are not set in stone, but up for debate by the students.
Dropped arguments are true arguments.  This doesn’t mean it is enough to win the round, but it will be yours for the taking. Impact these arguments so I know how to evaluate them.
New arguments are not the same as extensions of previous arguments. I will not vote on them.
Sign posting is not a good suggestion with me, it's a requirement. If I become lost, you will probably get a loss. 
Specific arguments are always better than generic arguments. Generic arguments should always be made specific to the Aff—otherwise it is highly unlikely I will vote on them. This includes CPs, DAs and T arguments.
Speed: Debate is a listening activity as well as speaking. I assume you are concerned if I am listening. Look at me. If my pen stops, you are speaking too fast. You can slow down or keep going. Speaking rate is a learned skill. I expect teams to speak at the rate befitting their skills at the point of their debate career where we intersect.
Reading evidence: I will read evidence if and only if it is challenged in the debate. If it is really important to the outcome of the debate, I would expect you to do the impact work necessary for me to vote for you on it without having to read it.
2NR/2AR: These two speakers should write my ballot for me. The rebuttal that tells the better story, explains why they win, and does the better impact calculus will win the round. If you do the impact calculus that means I don’t have to. And you probably won’t be happy with the decision if I have to do your impact comparisons for you. 
In the end, I like a fun, respectful round. Humor is good.
  