
  Louie Petit
 University of North Texas
 Number of YEARS Judging:
High School: 12
College: 8

Most Important - 2nr/2ar impact calculus work, competitive countrplans, not the K, disads. 

Counterplans-yeah, great idea if they are competitive and read as many as you want. In general I am not a big fan of consult counterplans but the nature of the nuclear weapons topic makes me more willing to listen to a consult counterplan. The difference is that they have a solvency advocate and a large lit base for both the aff and neg to access. Agent counterplans are just great!! The courts counterplan is a beautiful argument. As for counterplan theory I error negative. 

DA's - you should research and read these. Link uniqueness matters. Having an internal link is important. 2nc/1nr impact walls are smart. Answering those 2nc/1nr impact walls in the 1ar is important. The line DA turns case is just brilliant. 

Topicality- competing interpretations makes sense to me but not when it is taken to its extreme. Providing clear examples of what ground is lost/gained, what disadvantages would be lost/gained, and what generics for the neg would be added or lost is important part of winning your interpretation. 

The K- I seem to be judging a bunch of clash of civilization debates and I find them enjoyable, but I will admit that I am more familiar with the policy civilization. You can look at my judge voting record to see which side wins more, but I think it is about 55-45 in favor of the policy hoodlums. If you do read the K, I am fine to listen to it when it has links to the plan and not just to the topic. Value of life debates seem to always destroy the value of my day. (that was a hint, if the impact to your K is value to life then I would rather you find a better impact) 

Why you will win- Impact analysis/assessment. I am going to read evidence at the end of debates, but that does not mean I am going to do the work to figure what war comes first or whether war outweighs the environment. Making smart impact arguments that allow you to access your opponents impacts has always seemed like a smart thing to do. (that was another hint - talk about your opponents impacts, not just yours) 
  