
  Scott Phillips, former Chattahoochee Debater

I will start off saying there are no arguments I am morally objected to hearing, I will always check my personal bias at the door when it comes those kinds of debates. Second I will say that I tend to default to policy making, in most instances. This is not to say I will not vote on critical objections, or arguments that have nothing to do with policy making.
I have a relatively high threshold on topicality and theory arguments. I have absolutely nothing against these arguments, but I feel for an affirmative to loose on topicality, they have to actually not be topical. This means the negative must prove either substantial in-round strategy skew, or serious potential for abuse after the debate is over. You winning competing interpretations is good and the affirmative not making a good interpretation does not mean the plan is not topical. Topicality is a question of the plan. Does it not meet the resolution? I don't care how much time/energy you invest on topicality, if the plan meets the resolution on face you are wasting your time. Same goes for theory. Please do not get up and give me a 5 minute story about how conditionality is bad and skewed your strategy, when the 1nc was 2 off a counter-plan and a dis-ad. Being on the side of TRUTH when it comes to these debates will really help you earn my ballot.
I mostly read policy affirmatives and went for policy arguments on the negative, however this should not preclude you as the negative from reading whatever you want. However, if you do not have a strong understanding of a critical argument you want to read, it might not be the best idea. This is not to say you should not read critical arguments, just please be prepared to explain them very well.
Please don't be excessively rude in your debates. I know debate is a very competitive activity, and because of this tempers, emotions, etc. can rise, and I completely understand that. However, you know when you are being over the top and just rude, so try and not do that. It reflects very poorly on you.
Tag team cross-x is fine with me. Please don't steal prep. time. I know when your doing it, and I might not even say anything, but it will reflect poorly on your speaker points. I am not from the "paper-less era," however I fully understand its fundamentals and am okay with it. However, this is where I tend to see the most stolen prep. I do not take prep. time for flashing speeches, however it should not take more than 1-2 minutes MAX!
Be cool with me and I will always be cool with you.
  