
  Top of the morning to y'all, I'm Will. You may refer to me as such or "Your Excellency", "Mr. President", "Your Royal Highness", or perhaps if you are more traditional, "judge".

First off, I debated policy debate three years in High School and have been coaching in Rhode Island for the past three years.

Now on to the good stuff, I'll vote on almost anything … as long as it fits within my preconceived notions about debate.

1) I try to be as blank a slate as possible. I throw out most of my personal knowledge and experiences, meaning you need to tell who to vote for and why. That means IMPACTS, IMPACTS, IMPACTS. Don't make me look at the flow to figure out who won (your speaks will suffer). Make my life simple, and you will be rewarded.

2) If you are a performance aff or k-aff team strike me right now. I firmly believe that this is policy debate and we should be debating about polices and the ramifications.

3) I'm doing this for fun so I expect you to have some fun as well, take the round seriously but that’s no reason to be boring.

4) I will vote on K's but they MUST be run right, I have been judging for 3 years and debated for 3 before that, during that time I have seen it done right only once. I have a love/hate relationship with the K. I tend to enjoy the philosophy behind the arguments and the implications which we should consider. However, only once has the negative explained the K sufficiently well that I felt comfortable voting on it. If you think you are one of the select few who are above my lathing of K, but fuck up, your speaks will suffer. Be safe just don't run it.

5) I'll vote on Theory and T but you must spend time on them. Don't just extend them into the 2NR. On that point, do not extend any argument by saying "extend that" you at the very least have to give a reason for your extension.

6) I will vote on RVIs but you need to treat them with the respect they deserve and there MUST be actual abuse.

7) I'm not your mother!! I won't give you time signals. Also, dealing with electrical issues(glitches, crashes, missing speeches, or flashing) will count against your preptime, do I look like your mother?

8) I value the flow very heavily, making it in your best interest to keep it clean, sign post and follow your roadmaps! If your spreading is so horrible I can't understand, I will put my pen down.

9) Performance affs. I can foresee a universe where I would vote on them, depending on your personal beliefs there could be an infinite number of universes, but I wouldn't bet on me voting for on one in this universe.

10) Speaks:
What gets you good speaks:
Following the flow
Jokes
Clear spreading
Productive CX

What hurts your speaks:
Being boring
Wasting CX or Preptime
Being rude or disrespectful to anyone in round (that includes your partner)
Any whining related to electrical problems(I'm a paper man myself)


Cheerio and good hunting.
  