
  Recent Graduate from Fort Lauderdale High School
Current UF student
He/Him pronouns
*anything offensive said in round (gay, retarded, or anything transphobic, homophobic, racist, etc.) will result in reduced speaker points or an automatic drop*

I did Public Forum for three years and Lincoln Douglas during my senior year. I do not understand completely, nor feel completely comfortable, with arguments like theory, kritiks, counterplans and so on. I will be willing to hear these arguments as long as they are explained thoroughly and actually have some relevance to the topic.

Speed: Do not spread. You can talk fast but I will say “clear” or something along those lines if I cannot understand. If you cannot control your speed, please share your case with me.
Speaker Points: I will award based on coherency, articulation, and respect for both your opponent and myself. There is a difference between being aggressive and being rude. If you are being rude to your opponent (not letting them answer, speaking over, making faces, acting superior if you come up against a novice), you will lose speaker points, possibly having a low-point win.

Framework: Please spend time actually explaining why your framework is more important/ why should I look at the round through your perspective. If you just say to look at your framework and your opponent actually explains theirs, I will look at theirs. It is important to also explain how you win under said framework. If I am just given a framework and nothing to view with it, I will have to weigh the round myself and that is not my job.

Arguments: Explain your arguments clearly. Do not just read me a bunch of evidence and call it an argument. Include analysis and linkage of your evidence to your argument. If you just spew a bunch of cards against me, I will not view them as relevant or important to your argument or to the round. EXTEND ALL ARGUMENTS THAT YOU WANT ME TO MAKE MY DECISION ON. DO NOT JUST ASSUME I WILL LOOK AT IT. Do not just say extend and move on. Explain what about the argument makes it important to the round.

Theory: I do not know much about theory. I do know that it can be used very abusively and wrong. If you run theory, explain it clearly as to why the opponent should act the way you are saying they should.

Weighing: Like I have said, do the weighing, do not make me do it. Explain why your impacts matter more than your opponents. Do not make me do it because that is my job.
  