
  Indianola High School

In general im open to all types of argument as long as they are well articulated and explained. I may not like voting for something’s sometimes but it will if it's the winning point. I’m not going to be making impact calculus for you so make sure you do it for me. Judge intervention is not a good thing so don’t let it happen. DON'T DROP ARGS. A dropped arg is considered true one therefore the other team will get full weight of the impacts.

Topicality/Theory-either you develop really well or don't run it. I'm probably more apt to vote on theory and topicality but only if it’s ran well and intelligently. Spending 20 seconds on this in the 2AR or 2NR isn’t going to win it for you. The only way this would happen is if it’s dropped.

Counterplans- I’m all for CP's as I run them almost every round. Consults are ok as long as you can argue them well and show the necessity for a consultation. Conditional arguments are ok as long as you can argue them well and there is only 1 CP. As far as the aff goes if you feel condo's a winning argument for you then make sure you really develop it and it’s not just a blippy 20 second block.

Disads- Disads are good. Make sure you link and there's a legit internal link to the impact.

Kritiks- I’m kind of a fan of the K. However, make sure you explain it well and make sure you know what you’re talking about when you’re running it. Be sure to explain the link story as well as the alternative. If it’s a reject the aff. Alt. make sure to explain how that solves for the K. In terms of K Affs, I’m ok with them as well but as before just be sure to articulate and explain well.

Performance Aff's-Like I said above I will listen to and vote for anything.

Speed-I’m good with speed but be clear. If you’re mumbling then I will tell you once then stop flowing until you improve your clarity.

Speaker Points-in general I’m going to be rather nice here. If you’re particularly good you will obviously get better speaks but the norm. for points will probably be in the 26-28 range. Above that means you were one of the better, and below means you did something bad. Along with not only skill and technique here im also going to be rewarding you for good strats and you’re going to know if I thought it was dumb here also. 
 
  