
  My Experience: I coach at Corona Del Sol High School, primarily coaching LD, and this is my sixth year both coaching and judging. I competed in the LD for my junior and senior year in high school. 
Speed: I have no problem with speed; my only concern is with clarity so as long as you can spread while maintaining clarity I will have no problem.
Theory: I generally have a faster than average trigger on theory. I do need to hear the interp, violation, standards, and voter in order to vote on theory, although it doesn't have to be in the traditional A, B etc... format just as long as it is all there.
K’s: I have no qualms with voting for a K, just have to do the work to explain the link back to whatever you have a problem with and then explaining either the alternative or why your side avoids the harms. 
Discourse: I am also cool with discursive arguments, I just need to hear why the discursive impacts are important. 
Value/Criterion: Obviously you can use this format too, and I'm find with impacting back to either value/criterion.
Summary: I will judge the round however you tell me to judge, which makes impacting and weighing very important because otherwise I will not know what to vote off of. If left to my own devices I will use a competing world view and I will use my own judgement as to which impacts are more important, which you don't want, so make sure o weigh and impact. Finally I am okay with flex prep, but it must be asked for by the AC CX.

Policy:
I've judged policy for the past 3 years on the local Arizona circuit. Much like in LD I'm open to any sort of arguments, and will vote for whoever does the better job debating. The only notable exception is on topicality, I have a very high threshold to vote on that. The affirmative would have to be very much non-topical and not defend it well at all for me to vote on topicality.
I'm only to K's, and all sorts of non-traditional arguments from either side, feel free to go all out with me. I am a huge fan of politics in general, and love having those arguments spilled out on the debate floor, just make sure you know what you're talking about, and be aware of how time sensitive those sorts of arguments can be. I'm also fine with other forms of theory, although I do prefer hearing why I should be voting on that theory argument. If you have any other questions for me, or something more specific ask me, I'm always happy to talk both before and after the debate rounds, and have fun. 
  