
  Speed and Presentation: Back in high school, I debated in LD, and had a little bit of experience in both Parli and Policy. That being said, I only judge about one tournament a year, and am very out of practice when it comes to following a spread, therefore I appreciate it when debaters in my rounds speak more slowly. You don't have to act like you're giving a presidential address, you don't even have to talk at a conversational pace (although in my book they can win you a couple extra speaker points). Feel free to speak quickly, but don't blow me out of the water with speed, I won't be able to keep up, you're arguments will be lost to my ears, and everyone will be sad. Furthermore, when speaking quickly, clarity is key! If I didn't hear it, it didn't happen.

Arguments win rounds, presentation wins speaker points.

Arguments: I'll accept most any argument, critiques (or kritiks), theory, etc., but they must be clear, concise, and most importantly logical. As long as there is a clear and logical argument and the links are strong throughout, I will accept it. If it isn't logical to me, I won't accept it. If it isn't clear, you leave it up to my interpretation, and most likely, it will not get you anywhere in the debate.

Always make clear to me the way in which you want to win the debate, value fulfillment, impacts etc! This is the only means I can use to determine the winner, so please make it clear! If you are winning off impacts, tell me how you outweigh your opponent. If its value fulfillment, be specific on why your case is more fulfilling, fulfills it first, quicker, etc. These are just examples. Like I said, any logical argument is fine by me, but be sure to tell me the means by which you want your arguments evaluated and how well you do so compared to your opponent.

Disclosure: If both debaters want, I will disclose in round, but both must agree. If one person doesn't agree, the other can find me sometime later and ask me. I prefer to give oral RFDs, it's less work, but I understand if you want something written that you can refer to for future practice.*

*I am not a coach or a professional. I'll give the best advice that I can based on my experience and training.

Don't try to convince me to change my decision after the round. As the debater, you have an allotted amount of time to convince me to vote for you in the round. It is not my responsibility if I misunderstood your argument, or disagreed with your reasoning, or judged your impacts to be less severe than your opponents. By participating in this sport, you accept the level of subjectivity and human error that comes with it. I have never had the issue of a debater arguing with me post round, and hope to never have to.


Final Note: If you have any questions for me about my paradigms, want more detail, or need clarification, feel free to ask me inside or outside of the round. I promise I am very nice!
  