
  Affiliation: Science Park High School (Newark Science), JUDL
Experience: Policy Debate in High School for 4 years. 

Overall, I do not have a problem with any style of debate. I'm able to flow all speeds but just try to be clear.
I flow pretty well. If it's not on my flow, then you probably didn't say it.

In High School, I mainly ran policy oriented args (CPs, DAs, Case) but I was very familiar with the K because I did run K Affs. As long as you're comfortable with the argument, then I should be too. 

Preferences: I like every argument but here are my preferences anyways...

D/A's- I love them! A disad with a strong internal link will get you far! Links must be specific! 
Ptx- My favorite! If you did your research, I don't see why shouldn't win the debate round! 
CPs- I like them all. Advantage, Consult, Pics, Condition, etc. Just explain them well please. I would go slow when it comes to CPs.
K's- are fine with me. I do not have a problem with them. I ran K affs for half of my high school career and I did run the K once in a while. Because I'm pretty familiar in how to debate the K, I just ask that you make your links as specific as possible. K's can be vague and a time skew. I will know if it's a time skew. 
Framework- (Offense/defense) I highly take this into account if you choose to run it. I see fw as important as much as your k aff or k is. 
Theory- I like them all although they are reasons to reject the arg, not the team. Just give me a reason to vote for any theory is fine by me- that's if you choose to run them. Remember theory doesn't revolve around your blocks. Good debaters do line by line. 
Topicality- The debate ultimately comes down to competing interpretations vs. reasonability. All I ask is for you to explain why your interpretation or counter interpretation provides the best ground for the debate!! Limits, Limits, Limits! I believe that is ultimately the only standard I mainly evaluate. Make sure to impact your arguments too! 

Impact Calc- Makes my job easier! 
Line by Line- Very crucial. I like to keep my flow organized. 
Cross X- Open cross x is fine by me. Cross x benefits you, not me. Take advantage of the opportunity! I will listen though and I'm pretty sure it'll have an impact on my decision! 

At the end of the day, just have fun! <3
  