
  Bellarmine '13
Cal '17 (Not debating)

Background: I debated in high school for 4 years as the 2N. I have basically no fast experience as I have mostly debated in a lay setting with a fair amount of medium debate mixed in. Although I'd like to think that I could understand fast arguments, I have likely lost what little understanding I had in high school since starting college. That being said, I will judge on pretty much anything as long as I can understand the flow of your argument. So you can run anything as long you can clearly outline the structure of your argument and make sure there's a clear link between every aspect of it. I'm pretty sure I used link wrong, but that just shows that you shouldn't assume any background knowledge of complicated arguments on my part.

What you should know: First of all, no spreading. At a lay speed, I can flow anything you throw my way. If you want to pick the speed up (as long as you're not spreading), I can handle that too as long as you're very clear and you're really organized. However, I'm pretty sure that's not the case for most debaters I've known and seen so you should probably err on the side of slower delivery just to make sure I get everything. Second, be polite. I like (and am persuaded by) confidence, but I've seen way too many kids as both a judge and a competitor that don't realize that this is just high school debate and get far too rude. You can be assertive while still being nice I promise. Just have manners and we'll all have a much more enjoyable debate. Third, make sure every speech is organized. I'd like to see a debate where everything is sub-pointed and every response is clearly linked to another. That doesn't mean that you need to be super specific, but it'll be easier for me to understand (and be persuaded by) your arguments if I can put everything neatly down on my flow. This applies to the structure of your arguments too. Ideally, it would be like: "They say X, so Y, which means Z" and so on and so forth. Fourth, I'm not the most experienced judge so it would be best if you could give me clear voters in the rebuttal speeches.

I don't really have any ideological standpoints or any topic knowledge so you don't have to worry about that. If you just follow the above, then it'll be a chill round. References to Yu-Gi-Oh! will be rewarded.
  