
  Debating Experience: 4 Years Canyon Springs High School Las Vegas NV
Coaching Experience: 3 Years, same school

I am not a fan of judging preferences influencing the debate round, I hate judge intervention and will avoid it at all costs, which usually means that I vote wherever is easiest to do so.
I really hate sorting out flows or messy flows that require me to look for your responses, I love a good line-by-line debate, more than i love huge carded overviews, basically put the arguments where you want me to evaluate them because I am not willing to do work for you. I will vote on ANYTHING as long as you give me a reason to do so.
My specific preferences are as follows:
Theory: I list this first because it is the most important, most theory arguments are shallow so if you can provide a real-world impact it is a lot easier to vote. I will vote on ANYTHING as long as you have a theoretical justification for it. I have never voted on "condo bad" or "pics bad" but I will if someone actually articulates those arguments past just reading the block in the 2ac. Whether theory precedes topicality or vice versa is up for debate in every round.
Topicality: I think it belongs in almost every debate if only to protect your links, so run it. Its really hard to win T on potential abuse but I am happy to vote on it if you point me to another argument that they have killed in the debate round.
Framework: If it is a wash then I will go for the most inclusive framework but there is definitely a place for getting rid of a k with policy-making fw, or using an ethics fw to negate 1ac offence
Kritiks: run them, but run them well. If the other team knows your K better than you do and can point out your contradictions it can kill the K pretty easily. whether the k needs an alt, or whether the aff needs a plan text is up to debate.
Misc: you will get higher speaker points by smart analytical arguments than the ability to read cards really fast.
"more ev" is not a real tag, read one good card instead of 4 bad ones
I will usually call for cards at the end of the round, usually just to check if the warrant matches your spin, most of the time it doesnt effect my decision because I will only vote based on what you have told me (the excpetion being if you say "call for this evidence" or make a huge issue about the goodness or badnees of it, in which case I might evalutate it) The cards will mainly effect your speaker points good spin=good speaker points
give more pen time for theory arguments, I can flow fast but if i can't keep up that is your fault
  