
  Name = Mike Priem 
Affiliation = Mankato West 15+ years coaching
School Strikes = Mankato West 
CX philosophy = 
I'm an old-school policymaker. The "question" to be answered in the round is whether 
the plan is a good idea. Typically, I'm figuring that out by determining whether the 
plan is uniquely advantageous. 
I try to avoid intervening, but nobody's perfect, least of all the debaters in rounds I 
judge. I'm more likely to default to my "theoretical" preferences (about how arguments 
interact to produce a decision) than any "substantive" or "ideological" preferences 
(about the relative merits of a position or claim). I don't recall ever stepping in to 
simply reject an argument as repugnant, although it could happen--I wouldn't do it on 
something like malthus or spark, but I probably would on an explicitly racist, sexist, 
homophobic, etc. argument. 
 
In terms of theoretical preferences and issues: 
Critiques- I am not a expert of philosophy, but I have vote for my fair share of Ks. It is best to frame this argument in terms of how it links to the aff and that the alternative does something close to tangible. 
I like T, and I think there are some good T battles to be had on this resolution. It's
pretty much always a limitations issue for me. I don't care much about specific 
examples of abuse--I view an excessively broad interpretation of the resolution as 
inherently abusive to negs. Running a critical or performance case does not excuse the 
aff from the burden of being topical. Moreover, the topicality aspect of the case 
probably needs to be explained in non-performance language--I have a hard time 
understanding how a dance move or interpretive reading addresses the issue of 
resolutionality. Also, critiques of the concept of T start out at a disadvantage. I can 
understand how some critical evidence/arguments might be good reasons to adopt or 
reject particular interpretations of the topic, but I have a harder time seeing why they 
would make T go away. 
Counterplans are cool. Competition is probably the most important element of the CP 
debate. Competition is virtually always an issue of net benefits. Perms are a good test 
of competition, but please note that "do both" is NOT a perm, it's just a standard oldschool 
competition argument. I don't have really strong theoretical biases on most CP 
issues. I do prefer that CPs be nontopical, but am easily persuaded that it doesn't 
matter. Perms probably don't need to be topical, and are usually just a test of 
competitiveness. I think PICs are seldom competitive and might be abusive. All of 
these things are highly debatable. 
Feel free to ask about specific issues. I'm happy to provide further explanation of these 
things or talk about any issues not in this statement. 
  