
  General Information

I debated for the University of North Texas. The first half of my career consisted of primarily policy arguments and the second half consisted of primarily critical arguments (on the aff and the neg). My default paradigm I feel is very balanced. That being said, please do not make assumptions about my philosophy based on arguments I read as a debater. I was very lucky to have such a strong coaching staff as a debater and became very adept at the arguments that I would make. As a 2a, I was able to become very familiar with certain bodies of literature and use it to perform successfully on the critical spectrum, but that does not mean that I am very familiar with every body of literature or every criticism. You should be able to articulate your argument as if I wasn’t and that should be your default.

I am going to go through specific argumentative strategies and list any views I have that may help in understanding how I see debate and any biases I may have.

Topicality

Someone once told me that there were circles around the resolution and you could be in the main circle (traditional policy affirmative), around the resolution (kritik that was topic specific), or completely outside. Following that logic, the first two probably fit my philosophy the best. I think that affirmatives should strive to be topical or related to the topic at the very least. If you want to go critical that is fine, but it should have some sort of connection or interpretation that is regarding the debate resolution. The way you choose to defend the topic is up for interpretation and a debate to be had.

I generally default to reasonability unless an argument for competing interpretations is made. Topicality is not a voter merely because it is a “rule”. The negative has to win why the aff is unfair (or bad for limits) and impact that. The word “limits” is not an argument in and of itself, just as the phrase “topicality/limits are racist” is not an argument in and of itself. I give affirmatives a lot of leeway if I feel like the negative is doing a bad job explaining their argument. Ultimately T is a defense against abusive affirmatives not a strategic tool to search for ways to make the aff not topical.

A good topicality debate is one that includes a case list for the interpretation, specific negative strategies each interpretation would preclude/include and why those are good for the community/educational, and topical versions of the aff for educational purposes, etc.

Framework

This might surprise some people, but framework debates (both sides) are one of my favorite things. With that being said, not every kind of framework debate is my favorite.
I can go either way on the framework debate against critical positions. I am not persuaded by generic criticisms of policy education/critical education, but find framework debates to be most compelling when critical affirmatives use their criticism and apply it to the framework debate in specific ways and when negatives use their impact turns or method take out arguments in conjunction with their framework arguments to create specific clash.
I do think there are arguments to be made about the kind of education and the value (or lack of value) of the arguments certain interpretations would give preference to. For the negative I believe "framework turns the aff" claims i.e. "framework prevents dogmatism" and "framework is a way to provide valuable contestation of the content of a critical position" coupled with a topical version of the aff are generally persuasive to me.

Theory

This is probably the place where me being a 2a really plays a part most. Especially CPs that steal the aff – consult CPs in particular. I will judge based on how the debate goes down but in the competition/theory debates for consult cps – I find the aff side more persuasive when done right.
However, I think topic specific/literature grounded PICS are awesome. The aff should have a defense of the words they choose for their plan text. But I do not want to hear “The” pic every round, which is why I say topic specific.
Conditionality probably is a good thing. However, it has gotten out of hand in recent years. The negative does not need 6 counter plans to adequately test the affirmative. I will certainly not vote aff on theory “to make a statement” but I do believe affs should stand up for themselves more often if the neg is being abusive. With that being said a conditional CP or two is not overly abusive.

Giving examples when crafting a story for abuse of why your interpretation is better is very important to me. The less abstract your argument is the more persuasive it will be. You don’t need to make your theory debates conversational speed but I would prefer a SMALL decrease in speed as theory arguments tend to be somewhat blippy – especially when presenting the interp/counter-interp.

Criticisms

There is no “the K” – there are an infinite number of criticisms. I like this type of debate. It is a very strategic and powerful argument when deployed correctly. I have no interest in listening to a criticism where the depth of the discussion is “you use the state and that is bad, the impact is violence”.
Framing is essential. Link, impact, and alternative solvency arguments should be framed in the context of the aff. What is the role of the ballot? Etc… I will say I am increasingly skeptical of role of the ballot claims. It seems to me that the role of the ballot is inherently who does the better debating. “The role of the ballot is heg” is not an argument. If you want to make a role of the ballot argument, apply it: “This means you should view the permutation through the lens of… or this means you should be skeptical of their x argument because y.”

Although I am somewhat familiar with critical literature please don’t assume I am an expert in all things critical. I am not and if you are upset about a decision because I did not understand your critical thing, it is your fault for not explaining it.
Explaining your argument will always get your further than neglecting this aspect of the debate. If the aff feels that impact turning as opposed to link turning is a more strategic option they should do so. I think imperialism good, cap good, hegemony good, violence necessary, etc… are arguments and need to be answered. I am very flexible when it comes to clash of civilization debates.
*Note: race based and identity based arguments are probably not where you want to be when I'm judging. Yes, I fully understand there are problems with the debate community, however, I am far more persuaded by reformism, coalitions, "work together to fix the problem" as opposed to "burn it all down" kinds of args. I also find many of these positions are entirely self-serving. The team should be doing something that advances a community norm that you are criticizing and not loose because they debate at a time where the community norm is something you have a problem with.

Things I have no tolerance for:
1. Continual and increasingly frequent outbursts by teams and coaches who take issue that I did not find their argument persuasive. If you cannot separate your emotions from your arguments (or at least not fly off the handle when your personal advocacy is not a round winning argument) I am not the judge for you. I feel that if you are focusing the debate around who you are as a person you incur certain risks that go along with that. People must respond to your argument. It is amazing to me people make their identity an argument then get upset when people attempt to engage/answer that argument. You have come to a competition so if this is how you choose to compete understand what comes with that.
2. Teams who don't answer the other team's argument and expect me to apply their argument for them in the most beneficial way. Tell me how your arguments respond to theirs – I won’t do extra work for either team.
3. Debaters/ coaches who talk to the opposition rudely. I am not always the most cordial person but I won't tolerate an environment where competitors are verbally berated, threatened, screamed at, or anything along these lines. Your competitors are people too so treat them accordingly.

Disads

I think disads are good. I think you should probably be careful when it is a big debate and a lot going on. I see teams more and more taking out their own arguments – reading defense to their own positions or contradicting arguments and it is not very strategic when it comes to cohesive strategy. Conditionality good is fine and dandy but when the 2a can stand up and concede three case args and take out one of your disads, there is a strategy issue.

CPs

PICs are probably good. PICs make the most sense to me when it is a PIC out of something in the plan text. However, as with most issues there are exceptions. The more untraditional the affirmative the more untraditional your theory interpretation can be argued – there is a debate to be had. Word PICs can be strategic but I feel the neg needs a specific solvency advocate that says X word ought not be used for Y reason during the policy making process. If you just read a card that says X word is bad I feel like the aff has more of an argument for why they don’t have to defend that or the perm solves.

Consult is a dumb argument but it is defensible. I am not opposed to voting aff on “consult bad” but there are plenty of justifications for it as well. As for competition debates - the only thing I really care about is either if the CP is net beneficial or if it is mutually exclusive. I have a hard time with CPs that “solve better than the aff”, because the net benefit link articulation usually isn’t as specific as it needs to be for the claim and because I don’t know the impact to solves more versus solves less.

For some reason I am more lenient on condition CPs than consult CPs. The process of conditioning does seem like something that occurs in real policy making/ negotiations. The neg needs specific say “yes” evidence. I would encourage affs to make logical say “no” arguments to these types of CPs even if you have no on point evidence.


Paperless Debate

I do not want your speech docs to follow along with in the debate (I see this as a growing trend at that is my stance as of now, but this is my first year judging college debate and this might change). Prep time stops when the jump drive is out of your computer and the responsibility to get the jump drive back is on you. You shouldn’t have to jump to your partner – you should use dropbox or something of that sort. Email threads are a little different. Once you are attaching then prep can stop – I don’t think gmail/internet speed should could against your prep time.

Prep Time Update*
If you are paperless - prep goes until the jump drive is out of the computer.
If you add cards in the middle of a speech for your partner to read that the other team doesnt have in the speech doc - take the time to save back up cards to jump drive to give to the other team. If you have time to add cards - you have time to save them.
I will not have free time to jump evidence added - it will come from your prep.

Speaker Points

The thing people need to realize is that speaker points, much like who wins and loses a debate, is somewhat inherently arbitrary. The idea that some judges have a formula and others just wing it is absurd. Here is how I generally approach the situation. Speaker points are largely based on the debating that occurs in the round. I don’t care what your reputation or clout in the community is coming into the debate. If I think you make smart arguments, debate well, and are entertaining you will receive what I consider good points. Major factors in deciding whether or not debating is done well include: argumentative strategy, clash (I refuse to apply arguments for a team when it is not done by the team), and argumentative deployment (cross-ex, big picture arguments, concessions etc).
Debate is not about sounding good, it is about debating, with the exception that it should be clear. Sounding good is a great bonus. If you do not engage with the other team’s arguments (clash) not only will you likely lose you will also likely receive bad points. “Yeah I dropped framework in the 1AR but I sounded so good doing it” is not a defense of why you deserve good points.

A specific note about clash. I find debates to be really difficult to follow when teams do not have structure in their speech. That structure can be traditional line by line or it can be something else, but you should know that if your speech is not applying specific arguments in a clear way than it will probably be hard for me to follow and that difficulty will not work out in your favor. Not because I want to force debaters to debate a particular way, but because I can’t predict the way an argument should be impacting the round unless you say how it should impact the round or apply it in a way that makes sense. It is up to you how you want to organize arguments, but you should know that unless an argument is presented and impacted than that leaves room for misunderstanding.
I probably wont give 29s or over unless highly extraordinary debate. I see my range being 28-28.6 range. But like I said, this is new to me and I will adjust as I see needed based on the new perspective of being a judge in the college community.

In round decorum

Treat your partner and the other team with respect. Even if you are exceptional at debate being rude or overly mean will not impress me. Your speaker points might reflect my displeasure if you are over the top enough.
I have a hard time articulating arguments based on unverifiable performance of another team. If something happened prior to the round or when I was not in the room. I do not know what to do with that or how to judge it. So be wary with these kinds of arguments, but if something happens in the debate you want to introduce as an argument, I am fine with it outside of that caveat.

Ethical Violations

If an ethical violation is made the round will stop. I will not be recording my debates - so the burden is on the team to time a card or have video recording if they believe the other team is clipping a card. I agree with Gabe and Louie a lot on how this should be handled. It is cheating. You will lose and receive a 0.
I can't think of other ethics violations that are made right now - but my philosophy is don't make them.
I will update if *knockonwood* something happens, which i hope it doesn't.

Update Post UTD - from the swing

I feel like people won't read this, but I will add some things anyways from my experience at UTD that might be helpful to know.
I am very flow-centric - drops are drops and that matters to me (sometimes more than sillyness of arguments - sometimes being my wiggle room)
It irritates me sooooooo much when teams talk during a speech loudly so that it is noticably distracting.
I still find links of omission unpersuasive.
I don't like to call for cards - i prefer analysis to reading. I will call, however, if the evidence is in question - quals/truthiness/etc.
For arguments that are not traditional that incorporate social location/performative elements - it is very important that I be told how that should function or what it should mean or how i should incorporate it into my decision making calculus.
In policy debates, impact framing is still relevant. Teams take for granted the word extinction does the work for them. Things like probability and time frame are important or some paradigm for weighing scenarios.
Theory interpretations need to solve your offense. IE 1 condo world probably doesn't solve all the old generic reasons why condo is bad wholistically. Also, be wary of cross applications for theory - big picture debating is definately strategic. If you are going to use theory to justify something abusive (or argue it should) then you need to win that theory argument. IE: if perf con/condo justifies perm do the alt - you have to win perf con/condo bad debate to get to the question of whether it should justify the permutation or whatever example you may have.
Negative strategies based on we solve better or we link less are very arbitrary and hard to weigh...
That is it for now...

Disclaimer
There are certain parts of this philosophy that I pulled from people who see debate similarly to me and judges that I have admired. I tweaked the differences and added my own proclivities.
  