
  I debated four years for Randolph High School, primarily on the national circuit. I'm now a freshman at Brown. I was kind of a lone wolf (Stuy adopted me at some point) and came from a super small school. I cleared at most tournaments my senior year.

K > T > traditional/stock = high theory > larp > theory > dense phil > tricks

I ran solely non-topical performance affs my senior year, read nonT afropess 50% of my rounds, but I’ve hit mostly everything so you can read whatever you want. Keep in mind I’m a fyo and I haven’t done any debate since March 2017 so go slower than your top speed. I’ll yell “clear” if I think you’re going too fast.

If you have any questions, email me at amy_pu@brown.edu . Here is my judging record.

Paradigm:
- I'm fine with you running anything and will honestly try to be as tabula rasa as possible, but please please please:
- do not read sexism, racism, homophobia, transphobia, etc. good (this is the only sort of argument I will straight up just NOT evaluate).
- flex prep is a1

K: I ran these probably every round as a debater and am most comfortable evaluating these types of debates. I prefer ks with active links to the actual aff than just the resolution, but either are fine. Performance/sing/dance/scream - do whatever you want.

T: T is fine and I’m actually pretty receptive to T (especially if it’s against just completely nontopical affs). I find T v. K debates really interesting (and enjoyed debating them a lot), but emphasize the bigger picture (why? do? I? even? care? about? what's? constitutive? of? debate?), not just the line by line.

Note: people always ask me if I'd evaluate must spec/T implement against a nonT aff and the answer is yes ofc lol.

Other note: if you hit a nonT aff, you should not feel discouraged from running T. Some debaters have, in the past, chosen to run noncompetitive counter-methods for the sake of adapting, which I appreciate, but do not sacrifice strategy. I will 100% completely evaluate - it's what you tell me in the round that matters most. I will try not to bring my outside ideology into the round. I believe that debate should be an educational, safe space, but it is at the same time also a game.

High Theory/Phil: I've hit/responded to a good amount of D&G, Heidegger, Derrida. I'm fine with evaluating those cases if you make it clear what the argument is and don't just throw around buzz words and expect me to understand. Explain it like you would to a five year old, but feel free to run them (I don't dislike them whatsoever) just make sure you overexplain rather than underexplain.

Traditional/stock: Coming from a small school, I started out with a lot of these debates locally. Go for them.

Util/Larp: read soft left policy plans my junior year.

Tricks: I would not be good at evaluating these. I can try but it will not do you well. honestly don't pref me

Disclosure: disclosure theory is fine generally BUT: if you are aware your opponent comes from a small school and probably doesn’t even know the wiki exists and you read disclosure theory (let’s say they don’t even know what theory is) I won’t evaluate it and will drop your speaks. If your opponent reads generic stock args, I’d rather you engage than read disclosure theory.

Theory: it's aight, but don't be frivolous. I will and have evaluated theory against ks before.

MOST IMPORTANTLY:
- Debate can be a violent and harmful place. Please, please, please be nice. If you’re in any way homophobic, sexist, racist, transphobic, etc. and you make it clear you don’t care for the way you treat the people in the room, I will auto drop you.
- If you’re hitting a novice who’s just entering the varsity pool or a traditional debater who doesn’t have much experience on the national circuit, don’t go 7 off and traumatize them. Be nice. I will drop your speaks if you be an ass.
- Don’t grill me after – I’m just trying my best and am new to this too.
- If you need anything before or after the round hmu through email or fb - we can grab a snack, talk about how to self care in this weirdly stressful activity, or whatever you want :)

People who changed my view of debate (and the world): Paul Zhou, Shannon Lee, Harry Kern, Nathan Cha, and John Staunton (I guess).
  