
  Yo, my history with debate is two years of Lincoln-Douglas debate in high school and two years coaching Lincoln-Douglas for Juan Diego Catholic High School (ongoing).


Judging
As a judge my job is decide who did the better job of debating, not who conformed to my opinions/preferences best. I will not let personal beliefs decide the outcome of the round as it is not my job to tell you what arguments you should be making - simply to look for who is arguing the best.Though in RFD I will mention tactics I think may have worked better, although they did not sway the ballot.
I prefer progressive cases. PICs, Kirtks, Counter Plans, you name it.I am accepting of traditional cases.Basically run whatever argument you want as long as you can pull it off. Please please please have concise arguments. I want a claim, a warrant, and an implication.Extend with an argument. Just naming cards will get you nowhere, as I while I am attentive to taglines, you will lose me when you ask me to extend your (for example) "Marks card" in a rebuttal, but do not give the warrant behind the card. Chances are I wont know what you're talking about and it wont end up on the flow.Impact calculus is something I feel is neglected in LD. It shouldn't be.If you drop an argument that's that. Same goes for bringing up new arguments in rebuttals. While I believe it is the job of your opponent to point this out, I will not turn a blind eye if they don't.I like a clear cut, line by line debate, as that is how I evaluate the rounds. Make it easy for me to flow and sign the ballot. Signpost clearly and provide offtime roadmaps.Flex prep is cool with me.I don't flow CX.Use all of your speech time and use it wisely to help construct your argument.Speak as fast as you want - but if you are not clear, I wont flow. It is your job as a debater to know your limits when in comes to speaking clearly AND speedily. I will shout clear if asked to before rounds.Please flash cases before hand - don't waste prep time or my time. This goes to say that you should be able to present your opponent with your case or clarification when needed, even if you're paper debating.I expect debaters to keep track of their own prep time and time in general. I will give time signals only if asked.Be polite in round - be passionate and aggressive and for all means please be argumentative, but don't be an ass.I do not tolerate gendered language in round. You'll loose speaks, and if I find it particularly offensive, I will drop you like a hot potato.Tell me you're "picking up Mary's Tamales" before round and I'll give you .5 bonus speaker points.
I like puns. 
  