
  I’m a former debater, and I travelled extensively. Most of the time debaters read the paradigm of their judge immediately before rounds, so if you’re doing so I’ll keep it short and simple because I don’t want you to be late.  
 
Speed: It’s awesome. I flowed some pretty fast debaters. I actually enjoy when speed is strategically used as a method of reading more arguments. I hate speed when it’s simply used to make the round difficult for your opponent to flow; that makes things sloppy. 
 
Theory: I’ll definitely vote on it. I never used it because I wasn’t very good at articulating it, however I do understand it very well. Just make sure you understand it ;)  
 
Argumentation: All in round strategies are cool with me. I actually prefer to see more nuanced approaches. Counter plans, Kritiks, Straight Ref, Narratives, VIC’s, and just the simple stack…I used them all so I wouldn’t expect you to have to abide by some other regulation. I do not hold more unique positions to any higher standard than I would a typical stock position. However, keep in mind they are usually more difficult to explain, that means I need you to be clear.  

Standard: The standard is obviously the most commonly used tool to measure the meta level of the debate, I would like to say I disagree with the traditional view: that it is the default method of weighing. I did policy, and in policy a lot of times there is intuitive weighing being done. What this means is if both debaters have a standard…cool, one of the standards is going to win and then whomever better weighs will get my vote. But if someone isn’t running a standard he/she doesn’t have to give nine justifications for why they didn’t need one, likewise, I don’t want to hear in the rebuttal that, “this is LD and everyone needs a value criterion.” In every debate round, no matter how the AC and NC go, in the 1AR and the 2NR I should be able to determine what tool I am using to weigh impacts because it is the debaters job to explain how everything functions on the flow.  
 
With that said, I love debate. Have fun and get into it, if you don’t you will regret it. Feel free to ask any questions when you see me.  
 
  
 
 
  