
  Updated on October, 16, 2013

I debated for four years for the Hockaday School (TX) and qualified to the TOC twice. I am currently coaching for Randolph (NJ).

General:
I will vote on any argument with a warrant. That being said, I prefer to watch rounds with (1) interesting framework debates and/or (2) debates with quality evidence comparison and weighing.Speed is fine as long as you are clear. If I cannot understand your arguments, I will not vote for them.I will yell clear, slow, etc.Slow down for author names and tags and pause between spikes, analytics, etc.
Framework:
Please have warranted framework justifications, preferably nuanced and interesting ones.I do not care how you structure your framework (e.g. value/criterion, burden, etc.) as long as you provide some evaluative mechanism for the round.Please compare frameworks in round.I dislike AFC. That being said, if your opponent fails to properly answer AFC, I will evaluate/vote on it.
Critical Arguments:
I will vote on Ks and critical positions as long as I understand your arguments. I am not familiar with critical philosophy, so you need to clearly explain your arguments and their functions.I prefer critical positions that specifically address the topic. 
Theory/Topicality:
I default to competing interpretations and drop the argument.Slow down when you read interps and counter-interps.I do not assume that meta theory comes before theory.I dislike theory/topicality debates with lots of blippy analytics and no weighing.
Speaks:
I give speaks generally based on the overall execution of strategy in round. More specifically:
I will give higher speaks for:
Being strategicMaking smart, nuanced argumentsBeing clearBeing considerate towards inexperienced debaters and making the round educational for themNuanced framework debates and/or quality evidence comparison and weighing
I will give lower Speaks for:
Being rude to your opponentBeing unclearBeing mean towards inexperienced debatersRunning sexist, racist, or offensive arguments
Other:
I will not vote on arguments that debaters explicitly agree justify (or do not condemn) racism, sexism, genocide, rape, etc.Do NOT use dirty tricks in round. “Dirty tricks” include but are not limited to making your case unreadable (e.g. using size 8 font, formatting your analytics as one continuous paragraph of text), stealing prep time, etc.
Feel free to ask me any other questions you have before round.
  