
  4 years of policy debate at St. Francis HS, third year policy debater at ASU. I coach for DV. Im a K guy myself but ive been voting for framework something like 65% of the time. I know my way around a techy process counterplan. I'm a good flow, and I will probably vote on your dirty tech tricks if you win that I should vote on them.


MY PRONOUNS ARE THEY/THEIR/THEMSELF. (or ve/ver/vis/verself if you are brave)


If someone wins that I should be a policymaker or look at offense/defense I'll evaluate the debate accordingly. If you're winning defensive reasons why the other team should lose, I can be persuaded. I'll vote for anything if you win that's what I should vote on.
Im desperately trying to rebrand myself as a theory hack. i love theory debates. I love them more than my life. go for it in front of me. do a good job. your speaks will inflate like no other.
Historical analysis and demonstrably deep/nuanced knowledge of your argument is very, very persuasive for me.
k stuff I'm particularly familiar with: triple o, foucaults entire bibliography, queer theory, postcoloniality & decoloniality, hillman, berlant, Nietzsche, lacan
I will buy your internal link turns to framework if that's the best way your aff interacts with the topic - you don't HAVE to impact turn framework if u don't want to
I'll yell "clear" twice but after that I start docking speaks. Otherwise I am 100% fine with speed.
Do not make me call for cards. Don't make your authors do the debating for you. (However, good evidence - paired with evidence COMPARISON - does win debates)
Also i hate when people say stuff like "no perm bc it's a method debate" or "fiat solves the link" with no explanation. That's not an argument. I'm not writing it down.


I STRONGLY hold the line on new 1ar/2nr/2ar arguments; I will confidently default to not evaluating a new rebuttal argument, but you'll be extra safe if you tell me not to for reasons of fairness/education. however, i'm also open to listening to args about why you should be allowed to do that so do ur thing.
  