
  2017-2018
 About Me:
I debated at Ruston High School for all four years of high school.I am currently studying political science at Tulane University
Big Picture:
Sportsmanship: Debate is a platform by which competitors mutually enter into an academic environment to pursue education. If you do not respect your competitors, your speaker points will reflect it. With that being said, I am open to debates about what the platform should look likeCommunication: It is the job of the debater to effectively convey their point. It is the debater's responsibility for making sure that the judge clearly understands their points. I do not enjoy yelling "Clear," but I will do it 3 times before I stop flowing entirely. Likewise, your speaker points will suffer for each time I have to intervene.Prep: Flash time does count as prep time. Clearly say when you are starting and ending prep. I will penalize teams that appear to be doing prep after they have ended prep.Speaker Points: Speaker points are contingent upon a variety of factors including: clarity, road-mapping, disrespectfulness, theft of prep time, effective participation in CX, a constructive speech, and a rebuttal, merits of your strategy, and presentation. If you use profanity, don't expect high speaker points.Flowing: I flow both teams unless both teams tell me not to flow them. I evaluate the debate entirely off of my flow. It is your responsibility for ensuring you are clear enough for me to flow you.Evidence: I reward teams who use quality evidence over a hot jumble of buzzwords. If a card is in question, I will call for it after the round. I give credit to an author's credentials and I think you should too. I should not have to read un-highlighted parts of your evidence to understand it. I have no tolerance for clipping, or jumping around parts of a card unannounced. If you mark a card, you better have it clearly marked on your document.Decision Making: The way I judge the debate is entirely up to you. I will default to whatever I am told to do. Therefore, it is important to win framing arguments if you expect to win the round.
Specifics:
Topicality:I prefer the Aff actually have a plan or advocacy statement.T is always a potential voter, but the negative must show an actual violation and abuseThe more specific the betterKritiks:Must have an alternativeAlt must solveMust win Framework debate if you expect to win the KMust prove why thinking and acting are opportunity costsPerformance:Must have a purposeMust prove why conventional policy debate doesn't work to represent your point and why I should value your pointCounter Plans:I love a good theory debate.I also love coherent Neg strats meaning that DAs that link to the CP will hurt you.Read CP text slowly and clearly enough for me to actually flow itI seriously doubt your one terrible card below your generic CP text makes it all that much better than the 8 minute 1AC.Disadvantages:Please have current Uniqueness cardsNot every impact has to be nuclear war or extinction, but I will evaluate them as they are presented.I love impact calc debates.
  