
  Affiliation: Houston County High School, Mercer University

"I'm not a cop" was what one of my favorite coaches told me when I asked him how he evaluated round. I'd like to think that I can function under the same paradigm. Usually if I'm judging you or someone you know, I would like to think that I'm not here to save any fictional lives, rather I would like to think that for the two hours we have together maybe we can have a discussion that accomplishes a little more than the heg/ptx debate that you've probably had for like the last four years. That being said, if you are a fan of that do it, I'll try my best to evaluate the arguments but you should probably know that I'll be very lenient on the K and my threshold for policy framework may not be where you want it.

If you didn't know, I am currently a project debater and I would like to think that I care for this activity and hope to see it grow. That being said, I think that I've been told for so long that my job in the back of the room was simply to evaluate arguments but I think as debaters we can evolve past that simple game and maybe do something productive with the time we have together? I know quite a few people that have gotten scholarships from their work in debate, and that's great for them but I'd like to think that if anyone were dedicating this much time to an activity then maybe we can make it count.

But in general do what you want to do for the next two hours or so, but I think it would just be fair to warn you that my ability to evaluate the case v. ptx debate isn't something that I do with my current time in debate. **HOWEVER, please pref me if your a k team or want someone that is going to be more lenient towards your arguments. I would like to think I'm open towards all ideologies and I definitely don't default to utilitarian framing. 

Also, I reserve the right to vote you down on racist, sexist, and/or homophobic language. Elijah Smith does the same thing, and I think having that rule is probably good for the activity.
  