
  Debated in LD and PFD for Braddock high school in Miami Fl (c/o2007) and was an NDF fellow in 2007. I still coach novices and a couple varsity kids once in a while, but for the most part I'm pretty removed from the debate community after having been pretty active for a year or two.
I Judge mostly LD and PF. I've been getting away from LD as I've noticed that it's even worse than when I left it in terms of turning into 1 man policy.

You can sum up my philosophy in one sentence "Don't be a dick"

Fairly traditional. I'm "flow-centric" in both PF and LD. I tend to flow big picture of contentions. Standards/framework debate is key for me and I'll look there first unless you tell me otherwise and give me good reason (IMPACT AND WEIGHING PLEASE). I like theory, if it's good. Define things for me, pretty much talk to me like I'm off the street and consider me blank slate or at least very self aware about my personal biases (See below). I will try my best to not intervene but if you give me a messy flow where everything is a wash I'll be mad about my decision and most likely will default neg as the neg has no true proof burden in round. I like cleanly structured cases and rebuttals. Roadmaps are lovely.
I'll take 2 solid, high impact arguments over a spread of 100 arguments any day.
Please ask before the round any specific questions or if I have any bias on the current topic, I'll tell you, and much better before round then after in my RFD.

I value clarity above all else. Speed is usually fine as long as it is clear. Ask your opponent if they're okay with it too; otherwise, I will penalize speed as a way of getting an easy win.
I can tell when you're reading a case that you didn't write yourself of if you got someone's case before round and I will look at you with disgust the whole round. :D
Keep your own time, I'll somewhat follow time to keep you honest.

Make the round clear and easy for me. I <3 overviews and weighing. I <3 top heavy cases. I do not like card debates or line by lines. Keep policy debate out of PFD and LD, they're different divisions for a reason.
Warrants should have impacts and logic behind it. PF please use primary sources I can't stand getting a news article as a source. I want the study it came from I want the analysis. I have a stats research background, don't give me correlational arguments and call it causation.

If you have clever ideas I'm a fan, keep debate interesting, I get tired of hearing the same stock case (however, this whole nuclear war is bs I will vote it down on face at principle...Don't get me started on the current state of LD rant).
Use philosophy well (I was a philosophy major).

Again, Seriously, Please don't highlight the fact that debate in high school is pretty much intellectual masturbation by making outlandish arguments. Don't test me I will vote down nuclear war and the like k's on face and principle alone. :D.
I've done it before in break rounds and I have no problem with being the squirrel. With that being said, if you're able to come up with creative arguments, I will reward and praise you.
I believe in treating debate as preparation for the real world by which means don't be a jerk and flaunt what you believe to be your high IQ and running ridiculous arguments to make you sound smarter than everyone in the room. I will call you out on that. Use debate to learn and demonstrate how to get your point across or at least begin a discourse on important issues, so as everyone can learn and I will like you. I'm actually a nice and open minded person and will do my best to give you RFDs for what you do well and could do better, both as a communicator and strategic debater. My goal with my critiques and RFDs is to help you win future rounds and overall be a better debater, scholar, and person.

High speaker points are given to confident clear speakers who manage to look up off their case with good logic and creative ideas and generally if you're a nice person (sorry I believe encouraging civility and niceness in debate). Don't be afraid to entertain me by being funny at noone's expense except maybe you're own. If you're overly unclear, offensive, rude, aggressive, depending on severity it will either cost you speaker points or completely cost you the round. Please don't yell at me, it hurts my head (spoken as a recovering debate yeller). Varsity if you're up against a novice be nice, I'll reward you for it. 30s are given to not only good arguments but a good attitude and civility. Safe to say my 30s are rare and far between, It's much more common for me to give low point wins and 25s than 30s,

Overall I'm pretty chill and will let you do mostly anything as long as it's clear and you tell me why you're doing it, also I'm fairly expressive in round watch my face you can usually tell how i feel about things. Have Fun, learn stuff, be nice..

If anything is unclear to you see Gaba, P, he captures it well.
  