
  I debated LD for three years at Christopher Columbus High School and, subsequently, now coach for Columbus. Also, I'm a first-year college student at The Honors College at Miami-Dade College.

Short Version (As in you forgot to read my paradigm and are now reading it five minutes before round): Quite Frankly, I'm a very relaxed judge. You can run whatever you want in front of me, so long as the substance and links aren't shady as hell. I'm also fine with speed. That doesn't mean that you start out at full speed, rather it means that you start out at 65%-70% speed and accelerate from their. Moreover, remember the old saying, "If I didn't hear it, then I won't vote on it". Clarity is more important than speed. Subsequently, I'll yell clear as much as I want to, but it gets annoying after awhile. Also PLEASE tell me how you want me to evaluate the round. Make my life easy and show me your clear path to the ballot. Moreover, since this is the short version, weigh whatever your running, tell me why it matters, and then tell me why you're winning.

More Specific Version (As in you're embarking on the first step to winning my ballot)

Strat: You can run whatever you want. It doesn't matter if you're a lay, traditional, or progressive debater. There are multiple pathways to the ballot. Be the debater that you want to be. Accordingly, boring and strong always beats pretty and weak. That means that you win on substance, not by how you speak. Though being an excellent speaker will help you in round, it's not going to get you out of dropping five arguments in the 1AR.

Speed: Start out at 65%-70% of your full speed and gradually accelerate from there. Clarity is crucial. Don't make me yell clear 57 times.

Framework: I love a good framework debate. Accordingly, precisely weigh and extend throughout the round. Subsequently, you don't need a framework to win the ballot. If your strat doesn't necessitate it, then you don't need it. Nonetheless, I will vote for a good framework over a poorly run K or Plan, for example, in all cases.

Tricks: If you want to run a tricks case or something like that, I'm fine with it. Accordingly, be clear and explain it to me. To quote Michael Ortega, "Nothing makes me more upset than having you spend 4 minutes telling me why one sentence at the top of the AC means I auto-affirm or that all NC offense goes away."

K Debate: I love the K debate. It is one of the most (if not the most) constructive and educational aspects of debate. Accordingly, to quote Michael Ortega again, "Don't assume that I'd rather vote for a mediocre K than an excellent practical reason or util position.” Subsequently, I've read into a decent amount of the K literature used in debate. Don't run a poorly cut K that ultimately misconstrues the authors original conclusion. Also, go layer by layer and clearly extend throughout the round. For example, if you forget to fully extend and weigh the Role of the Ballot, you're going to have a bad time.

Policy Args (Plan, CP, DA): I really like hearing a unique plan or DA. Subsequently, well-constructed links are crucial and allow me to discern between plausible and implausible. Consequently, you need to clearly extend and weigh each layer of the plan or DA.

Theory: I'm much more appreciative of theory than I used to be. Nonetheless, I still have a relatively high threshold for it. Don't waste my time running disclosure theory or some AFF must run plan shell. If you end up running theory, clearly extend and weigh the shell. (I'll explain more about this before round)

T Shells: You can run whatever you want. Good and unique interps grab my attention in round.

Skep: I have not had much experience with it. I understand the general tenets of it but please weigh and clearly explain the position to me.

Time Keeping: I always time each speech, but I won't time or give signals for you. Also, I won't cut you off once you're time is done. I'll typically give you a 5-10 second runoff.

Other stuff: Don't be an ass. Be cordial to your opponent. If you decide to flaunt your ego or be an ass, I'll gladly tank your speaks. Also, have fun, or at least don't ruin it for the rest of us.

Being funny doesn't hurt. Even an attempt at a joke, whilst it fails, will still make me laugh and pay attention to what you say. Make me laugh and I guarantee that your speaks will be more than reasonable. If you decide to make me laugh through sarcasm, please ensure that it doesn't come across as malicious or as in bad taste. Don't attempt any jokes or sarcasm about your opponent, or else the only thing I'll be laughing about is how I'm going to wreck your speaks.

Accordingly, remember that all debaters make debate what it is. Always work to make debate: inclusive, educational, competitive, and fun.

Also, if you want to ask me more questions, before round, feel free to. Please do not hesitate to ask me questions since they'll put you in a better position to adapt and win the round.
  