
  Greetings,
I graduated from high school class of 2005 from Forest Park High School in Balitmore, MD
I debated both locally and nationally. I participated in both the BCFL and NFL. I debated at Big Bronx, Brown, Harvard, Wake Forest etc...
I'm currently the assistant coach for Baltimore Talent Development High School. This is my fourth year coaching. I have coached teams at the Big Bronx and Harvard Invitational as well as judged. I've had teams win the Chesapeake NFL regionals qualifying for nationals


Philosophy I am a very k oriented judge i view debate as a pedagogical activity that should be used for the liberation of oppressed groups I am not the judge for you if you want to read six off with six extinction scenarios. I would rather have six cards with value vs. twenty randomly read pieces of evidence i.e depth vs. breath. Malthus is out of the question!! Topicality- wont get my ballot under any circumstances!!



AffirmativeCan have any framework as long as they can defend it. I value systemic harms over probable harms.
I allow tag team but if you dominate over your partner it will be reflected in your speaker points


Negative While I do lean heavily towards kritics on the neg. you can win with counterplans, disads etc... as long as they are properly explained and defended Neg. Topicality- wont get my ballot under any circumstances!!
I value clash and rhetorical skill over incoherent spewing

THEORY I dont like theory debates at the end of the day they usually become a wash i would rather you debate teams on the substance, methodology etc.. of their arg not blippy cheap shots!!

I will not vote for anything that is repugnant in any way, shape, form, or fashion.

UPDATE FOR THE T.O.C 

As I have read the philosophies of many judges I have seen the phrase "tech over truth" I interpret this to mean that they way we debate i.e the traditional norms and procedures should come before what we argue. I think this is ridiculous we lice in a rel world and we should debate about real things.
  