
  Joe Rankin
Bettendorf High School
Bettendord, IA

UPDATED: September 24th, 2014

My name is Joe Rankin and I am the head coach at Bettendorf High School in Bettendorf, IA. I am now in my 9th year as head coach at BHS. I coach a range of events, but primarily focus on Lincoln-Douglas debate, Public Forum debate, and Extemporaneous Speaking.

Lincoln-Douglas debate has changed a great deal over the last 9 years. As the event continues to grow and develop, my own judging philosophy has changed based off of these changes. I will do my best to address the major styles of argumentation I prefer and go through the types of arguments I generally do not prefer. Here goes:

1. First and foremost, I prefer topical debate over non-topical debate. I would much rather hear a round that focuses on the crux of the resolution than one that devolves into something else.

2. I have no particular favorite case structure (value/criterion, burden system, etc.), but I do believe each team should have a standard and link argumentation back to the stated standard.

3. Speed is generally not an issue, but I prefer speed that doesn't involve double - quadruple breathing. You are not drowning - stop it. I don't mind a fast-paced debate, but there is a point of no return. I will not yell clear during the round. I believe there is a natural risk/reward when using speed like this and you should reap the consequences of your choices, should it come to that.

4. I will flow and keep decent flow notes throughout the debate. However, just because I typed your argument out doesn't mean you explained it thoroughly, impacted the argument to your standard, or weighed your responses against your opponent's. I'm not doing that work for you. Reading fast doesn't equate to knowing how to debate. You need to show evidence of understanding the arguments you are making and using them appropriately.

5. I have generally considered myself a flow-based judge, but I am seeing more and more argumentation that is designed to abuse this mindset. Generally speaking, you need to extend and discuss warranted responses to have an argument have an impact on the round. If you are extending unwarranted assumptions, don't expect them to hold weight in the round. I would prefer a focus on showing how issues connect in the round and apply back to the standard. Weighing analysis would be nice too...

6. Explanation and analysis is key in a debate for me. I am seeing a big uptick in arguments which seem to have no inherent value in the rounds I have judge. Presumption and skepticism come to mind. I am not going to presume anything in the round. I am a very skeptical person, I suppose, and often doubt people are being 100% honest with me...but that doesn't make skepticism a voting issue in the round. Stay topical and stay focused on what you are defending in the round to prove the resolution true or false. You are wasting your time going off in other avenues...I don't recommend it or prefer it. In the same way, I don't prefer critical argumentation either...so stick with the topic and advocate the position you are meant to represent in the round and we're good. If you choose to do your own thing, don't be surprised when I don't vote for you.

7. I assign speaker points based on how well you utilize your time and arguments throughout the debate. If you are signposting clearly, explaining thoroughly, and impacting regularly, you'll do fine. I generally give speaks between 26 through 30. 30s are not something I give out too often and I hardly ever use half points. I know we just started the downhill approach and utilize tenths of points now in addition to half points. That's just silly. It's not your fault, but it's ridiculous. Now a 29 is considered a "low" score to some because it's a long way from 30. No - in my book, you should be proud of that 29. In a perfect world, we'd abolish the use of half points and tenths of points. We'd just have a scale that was 1-5, whole numbers only. But, we aren't there (yet)...so, if speaker points are something you crave, ADAPT and do what you can to maximize your chances. Also, don't let me hear you crying about it later either...I'm upfront and honest with you about this, you have no justifiable reason to be a baby about this.

I think that covers everything. If you have any further questions, feel free to ask...but do take the time to read this FIRST. I took the time to write this and keep it (reasonably) up-to-date. You should do your part in reading these (assuming you care about winning rounds) and clarify any necessary points before the round begins. Thanks.
  