
  My debate experience (LD, Extempt, Congress) has prompted me to have a propensity to judge based on confidence, clash, and a good speaking ability. Note, my background is exclusive to UIL and FFA (Extempt).
In terms of LD- value clash is paramount, as well as ample evidence that effectively upholds your burdens. I really don‘t like incredibly immeasurable and largely hard to prove subjective values such as morality, justice, fairness etc. If your opponents value is one that is easier to measure (like democracy) they will have a advantage from the start, but feel free to debate whatever value you choose. I prefer not sharing your cases. Something I stress heavily and frequently is to qualify individuals you quote. Merely giving me the last name of a source is both professionally and academically inappropriate, and most certainly will harm you in points. NO SPREADING. Time signals likely will be given. Look at judge, NOT OPPONENT. I love it when students highlight their opponents burdens, as well as their own. This tells me what I most importantly need to judge on.
In congress and persuasive speaking its critical to attack arguments, but even more importantly, advocate for your own point by defending your argument. Professionally label arguments using debate jargon specific to that format (for example contention, value, criterion). Don’t give me a plan for LD and don’t do theory Debate. What I look for in speeches is a blend of good tone, posture, eye communication, extemporaneous ability in Extempt and Congress(not scripted) and among the most important attributes, PASSION. I have a propensity to deduct points if students fail to be thorough and organized within a speech as well. Evidence is critical, but please do not be monotonous. Also, please give me a real case with facts (stats, anecdotes ,example) otherwise, your case is just a unsubstantiated argument. And always remember to have fun and be kind, politeness takes you a long way. I don’t disclose anything in prelims, however, oral critiques likely will be given.
  