
  *NOTA BENE: If you have any questions, please feel free to email me at okemosrr@gmail.com or just ask me before the round.
I am:
Sagar RathodJunior at Michigan State UniversityCoach for Okemos High SchoolQuick:
Tech > Truth.I'll listen to Policy, Kritikal with a Plan, Planless, Affirmations, Advocacies, Anything. Just give me solid reasons as to why your arguments and form of argumentation is good.Tell me how you'd like me to frame the round.Affect gets speaker points, but line-by-line wins debates.Judged over 100 rounds since August 2014.Add me to the email chain: okemosrr@gmail.com.Disclosure, especially on the Wiki, is pretty cool (I don't think 2AC or Neg Block disclosure is necessary, tbh)Aff -- if your 1AC is on the Wiki before the round and you tell me, I'll add 0.1 to your speaker pointsNeg -- if your 1NC cites are on the Wiki after the round ends and you tell me, I'll add 0.1 to your speaker pointsKritiks:
They’re p dope.Very familiar with Afropessimism, Baudrillard, Psychoanalysis, and Deleuze.Familiar with Bataille and Nietzsche.Neg:Specific links are awesome. Frame the 1AC (reps/action of the plan) around your links.The burden of the Neg is to prove the Aff is a bad idea, so you don't need an Alt to win my ballot.If you are going for the alt, you have to do a good job explaining what the world of the alternative is going to look like.“K tricks” are cool, but only when explained and contextualized.Please don’t contradict yourself. Know what your philosophers defend and what they don’t.Aff:Generic “Ks bad” frameworks are not great. Perms are your best friends. Multiple perms are encouraged.Please answer the specific links.“Policy tricks” like Extinction outweighs, pragmatism, institutions key, etc. are actually very persuasive to me when explained well. Call out the Neg for mis-handling these types of arguments.Framework:
I have voted for this on multiple occasions.Debate the impacts.Neg:“They took my DAs” is not a good impact to Framework.Impacts like procedural fairness and truth-testing need to be explained and contextualized to the broader schema of debate.You need to win that your model of debate is good, not just that the Aff’s model is bad.You need to win that the game is good before you can win that your model of the game is good.Aff:I enjoy it when K-Aff teams impact turn the Neg’s model of debate rather than meet it.Case:
People should debate this more.Impact turns are awesome.Extinction Good is a valid argument. Racism/Sexism/Discrimination/etc. Good is not. However, if you can’t answer racism good effectively, you probably deserve to lose.Topicality:
I love T.Neg:Why should I prefer your interpretation (Standards)?What are the Impacts to T (Voters)?Why do those Impacts matter?These questions should be answered by the end of the 2NR. I expect a 5 minute 2NR on T if you plan on going for it.Aff:Please provide Counter-Standards, or else you will be at a HUGE disadvantage.Give me explicit reasons as to why T is not a voter.Reasonability is reasonable, but should be supplemented with more arguments.DisAds:
Explain the scenario of the DA. The more specific the link, the better.Paint me a picture in the Neg Block. I love overviews, even tiny ones.Impact Calc in the 2NR is required (Timeframe, Probability, Magnitude).CPs:
They’re p dope.More specific, the better.Theory:
Be clear when reading your theory blocks.Make the impacts clear.Speaking:
Be clear, duh.I give high speaks to people who make coherent arguments that I think contributed most to the final decision of the round. Doing cool things like not taking any prep (and winning) may be rewarded with higher speaks. I generally don't give speaks lower than 27.0 and higher than 29.5. Clipping:
Clipping is cheating. Clipping will be punishable by an L and 0 speaker points. Accusing Team must provide proof. If proof is deemed insufficient, Accusing Team will receive an L and 0 speaker points.Misc:
I don’t take prep for flashing — just don’t take too long.I don't mind tag-teaming in CX — just don’t make it excessive.CX is generally reflected in speaker points.Don't be rude. Be honest. Have fun!
  