
  (copied-and-pasted from NDCA)

Don't radically change the way you usually debate to please me. I
would prefer that you choose to advance your strongest arguments, than
to attempt something you're weak at pulling off because you think I'm
only receptive to certain types of argument. I like it when a Negative
team's strategy against a particular case gravitates toward the best
strategy suggested by the literature. I will listen to anything, but I
prefer most of all that the Negative's arguments to have a lot to do
with the case. I like a good kritik debate. Not especially important
on this topic, but I like good politics DAs. I don't like bad agent
CPs with a generic net benefit. I will vote for bad agent CPs with a
generic net benefit if you win it/them. I prefer most of all for the
Negative's arguments to have a lot to do with the case. I prefer
kritiks to have a lot to with the case. Also, for your kritiks, you
are likely to be better served by slowing down a bit, explaining your
link and impact with a few well thought out paragraphs rather than
reading more evidence that I am supposed to decipher after the debate.
Impact your kritik arguments by explaining why they're more important
than the AFF advantages; nuclear war can be outweighed if the impact
it is compared to is explained in the right way. If you want to be
able to win your theory arguments in front of me, you have to slow
down. I'm a pretty good flow, but theory is tough to listen to and
pen time is a must. If you don't slow down, I'll probably miss
something the other team 'drops' and then you'll be mad at me. This
includes arguments about the fairness of this or that framework. I
really dislike canned overviews. Knowing certain things that ought to
be said in almost every debate and putting them in an overview is ok,
but give me some indication that you're actually present for the
unfolding circumstances of this particular debate. This is true for
running a "one off" strategy as well. I like it if the 1NC engages
the 1AC. Change your "one off" to suit the debate. I also think that
overviews are a time when its good for you to slow down a bit. By the
time the 2NR and 2AR roll around there will probably be only a few
meta-issues that need to be talked about in a conceptual way -- these
will be where the debate is won or lost and its good to make sure that
I understand where you're coming from on them and how you think I
ought to resolve them. The overview is a time to do that and it helps
me if its a part of the debate where you choose to be especially
concerned with communication. Its the part of the debate where our
minds must really meet. Also, read whatever cards you need to, but I
like fewer, better, cards rather than a lot of cards from Newsmax. If
you talk about the qualifications of your authors and how that should
influence my consideration of the quality of your evidence, I will
probably be receptive to your reasoning. Winning a 'no link' or a 'no
internal link' argument really means there is 'no link' to the DA and
therefore, ZERO calculable risk of the disad. This can be true whether
there is also a question of a link turn or not. Often, though, it is
the case that the AFF has a hard time winning a 'no link' argument
outright. Unless the Negative's evidence is truly horrid (and there
are many times when it is, especially in the 1NC) or no evidence is
read at all, the Neg is probably going to be able to convince me that
there is some risk of a link. In these instances, an 'offensive'
argument like the risk of a link turn will do much to help the Aff. I
will try hard to be fair and to get where you're coming from no matter
how you speak in front of me or what you choose to say; that's really
the most I can offer.
  