
  Overview: Run what you want. I will vote on something if you tell me why That being said I tend to have certain arguments, or ways to run arguments that tend to be more persuasive. If you don't give me a Framework to vote on I default to Policymaker. I tend to believe the neg gets at least 1 conditional advocacy. Run what you're good at. 

Aff: In debate I didn't encounter many non-resoutional K aff's. That doesn't mean you shouldn't run them, I ran a few (not for long). If you think you can win, go for it.

DA: Run whatever you want. Meh. Impact Calculus. I tend to love a well run Ptix. Ptix is good.

Theory: I like theory, but I don't like it when it's the only thing in the debate. I feel that if you're going to run Framework or some Condo bad on the Aff you should also argue other things. NEG if you don't like their K Aff don't run a FW and like 5 T's. Answer their K and then Read a FW and maybe 1 T. If you run 5 T's I think its probably a lot more abusive than what they are doing. I'll vote on it if you can impact it out and tell me why it matters. RVI's don't exist. You will be dropped two speakers for uttering those words (grossness). Just because they tried to hold you to a standard doesn't mean I should drop them. BTW I tend to think the Neg gets 1 conditional world. I think forcing dispo/uncondo is illogical. I like logic. You get the Aff and perms, they get the Squo and another condo world.

T: T is T. Aff answering T by saying its on Open Evidence isn't a real answer. I default to competing interps unless you tell me otherwise.

K: This is the section you probably care about. I ran K's. I understand most Authors but if you run some obscure K make sure you explain its interactions (I shouldn't need to tell you to do this). Regardless of what you run, tell me what your Alt and the ROTB are. I feel that if you are running a K you should probably run it 1 off, but run what you're good at. One off is good. Aff, I like perms. I don't like FW excluding K's from debate. That's illogical (see above). I ran a lot of security. Security is good.

CP: I tend to think most CP's are okay. Please don't tell me to delay the plan... unless you have to. I will lose sleep voting on it. Sleep is good.

Bonus Round: Puns, League, and Stacraft are good. I also like jokes. Jokes are good. Goodness = more speaker points. Good?
  