
  I have a BA in Communications with a Minor in Drama. I have been judging speaking events since 1984.

I have been involved with CX and LD since 2005 and have been officially judging since 2011.

My paradigm is Tabula Rosa.


Presentation:

First and foremost, be respectful to everyone at the events - especially your opponents. Part of that respect includes allowing your opponent to finish answering your questions without constant, rude interruptions. I will count off of your speaks if you use this type of tactic. If you want me to take you seriously, then show me that you are serious by dressing professionally, showing confidence and being prepared before your time starts. Since this is a communication event, you need to communicate your ideas clearly to me. Don't assume that I will automatically know the point that you are trying to make. It is up to you to connect all of the dots. 

Speed:

I'm okay with speed, as long as it's clear. However, if you are running your words together, mumbling and taking breaths in such a way that is distracting and I can't understand you, your points are lost to me. I'm not going to tell you whether or not I can understand you. If you want to know, look to see. Tip: If I'm not writing then I'm not understanding you enough to flow. You might want to slow down a little bit. 

Arguments:

I'll pretty much vote on anything, just tell me why I need to vote on it. Otherwise, I'll likely default policy maker. A good policy clash adds interest to the round, but that doesn't influence the way I vote. 

Other:

I don't prefer open CX or prompting. I think that each debater should be prepared to carry their own load. 

Impact abuse claims. Just saying it's abusive doesn't mean anything, tell me why I need to intervene.

Also, I appreciate creative, imaginative arguments, anything that isn't generic cap good/bad or heg good/bad makes for an interesting debate.

Tip: Teach me something or make me look at it in a totally new light. Let's have fun with this!


LD: 

I follow the same as above. 
  