
  I debated for West Des Moines Valley for four years: three years of policy debate and LD senior year. I attended and got to elims of the TOC in LD. I currently attend New York University.

Identity Ks: 1
Performance: 1
Political Philosophy Ks (cap/biopower): 1
High Theory: 2
LARP: 2/3
Non-ideal theory based FWs: 1/2
Ideal theory based FWs: 5/strike
Frivolous Theory/Tricks: 5/strike

Theory
Contrary to popular belief, I will evaluate theory. For example, if your opponent reads 4 off and they're all PICs, I encourage you to read theory to check back against in-round abuse. But I will not vote on an unwarranted "no Ks" spike nor vote on frivolous shit like wifi theory. If your A strat is meta-meta-meta-theory, strike me.I will not pretend to be unbiased on the question of K vs. Fairness: I lean pretty far left. I encourage debaters to engage in the substance of the K rather than solely uplayering with theory. However, this does NOT mean that I categorically reject theory as an argument. Rather, it means that I want your theory shells to be more germane to the K/K aff you're hitting, more creative. I don't want to hear any "-insert K advocacy text here- lacks a solvency advocate" bullshit. How is this specific K/K aff unfair or uneducational? I will not vote on petty "no Ks" recycled theory because:the impact to the shell is non-unique given that Ks have existed for quite a while now and strangely enough, LD debate hasn't died yetthis argument is the debate equivalent of "you can't sit with us." It's exclusionary, disrespectful, and rude as fuckI debated this strategy too many fucking times during my senior year and frankly, it gets boring after a while.
Kritiks
Do not pander to me. I will not hack for K positions. If you do not know how to run a K/if Ks are not your forte then stick to your best arguments and explain them well. Do not regurgitate a K backfile at me if you do not know what you are saying.I read mostly fem and cap Ks during my career, but I'm fairly familiar with most K lit from critical race theory to queer theory to D&G to Bataille.I encourage debaters to explore different performative mediums: poetry, music, audio clips, etc. However, the alternative performance should serve a purpose that persists throughout the rebuttals. I.e. don't play music for the sake of racking up an extra speaker point
LARP
If your CP doesn't have a net benefit, I will cry.If your A strat is to read as many conditional PICs as possible in 7 minutes, I will cry.Otherwise, do you.
Framework
For non-ideal theory, I'm fairly familiar with Butler, Young, and Foucault.For ideal theory, I know the basics like the differences among util, deont and virtue ethics. If your framework is jargon-heavy, please explain things in simple terms. Do not assume I fully understand terms like "flourishing" or "noumenal world."
Other Important Info
Please disclose to your opponent in a timely manner via FB messenger, email, or in-person so I don't have to evaluate the clusterfuck that is disclosure theory. Aff: at the very least, please disclose if your aff is whole rez, a plan aff, or blatantly non-topical before the round starts.I give higher speaks for humor and creativity.I don't care if you curse, but I will give you 0 speaks if you use racial, misogynist, homophobic, or otherwise derogatory slurs. I make exceptions for acts of reclamation (e.g. reclaiming 'bitch' or 'slut' as a feminist performance in the speech)
  