
  Patrick Reynolds
CR Wash
Also Struck by CR Wash
The Cubs will not win a World Series in my lifetime.
I debated for four years at CR Wash and about three weeks at the University of Iowa. I worked at the Iowa Debate Institute this summer, I have judged at 2 high school tournaments this year, and have cut some cards for Wash, so I know something about the topic but I am by no means an expert.

I don’t think I have any preferences that should change the arguments you run. Run what you’re comfortable running, because chances are you’re better at debating that than something else..and I prefer good debate.

I guess I can go through all the specifics just to give you some peace of mind.

1. Topicality- I will vote on it, although I had a tendency to read questionably topical aff’s in high school, so I may have a little biased toward the aff. But if they’re not topical by all means go for it.

2. D/A- Yes. Lots of people hate little impact overviews on disads for some reason. I like them, at least make sure you extend an impact, because I doubt I will if you don’t. Other than that…just read them, in fact, read lots of them.

3. Counterplan- Also good. Big fan of the agent counterplan. I generally think PICS are good, but can be convince they aren’t. I really think consult counterplans are illegit but can be (with much kicking and screaming) convinced they aren’t.

4.Kritik.- I am by no means a philosophical genius, I have read kritiks on both the aff and neg, so feel free, just make sure you know what you’re talking about. If you don’t I would guess I’m not going to either. And that will make it very hard for me to vote for you.

5. Theory. Meh. I guess if you have to. I think it’s boring but I understand it’s strategic necessity. I generally am in favor of negation theory, and “abusive” negative strategies, but will listen to affirmative protests of that.

Speed and all that business is fine, if I can’t understand you, I will look and you very quizzically (sp?) and probably say something, but I’m not very loud so make sure you or your partner makes sure I’m following.

That's all I got.

Maybe I'll add more later, but I doubt it.
  