
  Coach at Flower Mound High School

Rhodes, Jon


I am open to most any argument but I need it explained. Don’t assume that I have read the books you have read and have interpreted the literature in the same way as you. Explain your arguments in a way that is intuitive and I will buy the argument. I am ok on speed but will call you out if you are unclear or are too fast. Give me a clear reason as to why to prefer your side over theirs. I am always open to specific questions before the round and will be happy to answer your questions of me if they are presented in a respectful manner and not addressing me in a way as to prove to you I am worthy of judging your debate.

I really like organized strategic debate that has been thought through. It is to your benefit to keep your arguments organized in a manner that they get on my flow how you want them. Tell me where to vote on what and why. I don’t mind pushing the envelope but you are going to need to show me why your outside the box way of pushing it is a good thing. I am fine with traditional debate as well but again tell me why your traditional way is a better way of looking at things.

Topicality: needs to be run technically correct and need to prove some type of abuse in round. It also needs to be defended technically correct and offer a counter definition that I can side with on the aff. (basically… do the work and don’t just throw it out as an after thought.)

Disads: I am open to hearing Disads in any debate if they are a good reason as to why I should not prefer doing the Affirmative.

K’s: It is my opinion that a Kritikal argument should be an argument that Kritiks that assumptions one side is making and prove that their assumptions are a bad thing and should be voted down for doing so. It is not just an off the wall argument to be a trick or a shady way of confusing the other side. They need to be run correctly and have a way to prove the other side is doing something that should be voted against.

Framework: I think that it is crucial to win the FW because that sets the way I as the judge should evaluate the round.

DON’T BE A JERK!!! There is no need to be rude to anyone.


Anything you don’t see on here just ask.
  