
  Katy Taylor 2017

UT Austin 2021


Hi, I'm Claudia and debated in LD for Katy Taylor High School. I currently debate policy (2N) for the University of Texas at Austin. I was coached by Elijah Smith my senior year so most of my views in debate are shaped by him. 



PLEASE put me on the email chain -- if you ask what my email is, I'll assume you didn't read this and be sort of disappointed. claudiaribera24@gmail.com


Do whatever you're most comfortable with. I am able to evaluate whatever in terms of TOC/Local/UIL, but just keep in mind to slow down on tags/authors/interp/cp text.


LD
Shortcut:

1 - K/Topicality

1 - Policy args

2/3 - Theory/Tricks

4 - Framework


I will vote on anything that is extended and impacted.



Theory: I will default to “competing interps” and “No RVIs”. I will not make any presumptions on the voter level of the debate. This includes the voter (fairness/education/etc.) and the implication (drop debater/argument). Failure to present arguments in favor of a voter and its implication is to present an unwarranted argument. I will not evaluate the argument, and I will default to truth testing if the debate is a policy oriented debate. This also means you should be extending your voter and its implication properly and in every speech. Blippy theory arguments are dumb if not extended well so I won't vote on it. Just slow down on spikes and interps on shells. Weigh standards!


I used to be super into tricks, so if that's your thing, go for it, I will be open minded but I don't think it's strategic and if it's in front of a new debater, I will be very annoyed.


Defaults:
Competing interps No RVIIn round > potential abuse

K's: Absolutely enjoy good K debates. That being said, I read a lot of gender/race lit in high school but if it's something like high theory positions in general, EXPLAIN THAT K ALT TO ME. I don't mind these debates, but I want to make sure I know about the round I am judging. Don't read K's if you don't like K's because I'd rather see a great debate than one that is terrible. Please include some type of framing so I know what you are talking about. This can be in value/standard, ROB/ROJ, or any other framing you can think.This also means your impacts have to link into a framework. I don't mind PIKs.


Performance Debate: I down for it. Explain to me what the point of the performance is.There should always be a good articulation of why the aff/neg is important in the round. Have clean extensions of the impacts and write me the ballot story as to why you have won the debate. Also, high school debaters forget about weighing and I need that to happen in order for you to win the round.


Topicality:Same rules apply with theory. I don't vote for RVI's on T because that doesn't make sense. DON'T FORGET TO WEIGH AGAINST THE CI/STANDARDS. Gotta have offense under T to win so do that. I also think this is a legitimate strategy against non-topical affs and can be a means of engaging the aff's methodology/pointing out the flaws. 



Framework: I read a lot of policy positions in high school so I'm comfortable with util debate of course. I am not very good at evaluating dense fw, so If you choose to read a dense framework just give me a decent overview of the FW and how offense operates under it i.e. what do I evaluate, how it affirms or negates, how it/if it precludes your opponents argument and offense.



LARP: Go for it. Counterplans are cool, but just remember to have net benefits on it. Be ready to have the textual/functional competition debate. I don't care for condo bad/good debate unless multiple offs that are conditional. PICs are cool. Disads are always a good strat as well and even better if it is impacted as a nb to the cp. Politics DA's are silly but I enjoy them. Make sure to make arguments like impact turns/defense.




Policy

General: Clarity is important and debaters forget to slow down on long blocks of analytics (especially for T/theory) and pls try to follow the line by line as best you can. 



Policy Affs:if you have a traditional policy aff just slow down on the plan text pls and have some sort of impact calc in the 2AR. I think these are fine.


CP/DA: Go for it. Don't forget to ask the status and PICs are fine. Test the competition of the cp(s) and make impact turns/defense. Explain why the perm(s) won't solve.

K Affs: I'm all for it. There are couple things you need to do to win: you need to explain the method of your aff, and the impacts that you claim to solve. You should have some sort of an advocacy statement or a role of the ballot for me to evaluate your impacts because this indicates how it links into your fw of the aff. If you’re going to read high theory affs, explain this to me because all I hear is buzzwords that these authors use. Don’t assume I am an expert in the type of literature because I am not and I just have a basic understanding of it.

Theory: Same thing in my LD paradigm but ask specific questions if you don't understand it.



Kritiks: I went for Ks my senior year against many different types of affs. I’m the most familiar with afropess, fem, set col, and queer. I am cool with most Ks but if it's high theory, I am not the most well versed. Read specific links not just state bad links. EXPLAIN THE JARGON. I love well executed arguments on DAs to the permutation and conceded links that are straight turns to the aff. Give examples on the link level and actually impact it out, especially if the K says it's try or die. 


Framework: I enjoy it. It's funny because I love K affs but I think K affs vs T debates are interesting. I like fw debates a lot more when they're developed in the 1NC/block, as opposed to being super blippy in constructives and then the entire 2NR. I lean more to competing interps than reasonability and believe that the neg should make sure to fully flesh out the link and internal link to your impact and actually make offensive arguments against fairness/education voters. TVA are my go to so if they concede it, I expect the neg to blow it up. If the neg has an advocate for it, I will be happy. Aff teams need to answer TVA well, not just say it "won't solve". Aff teams should also go for impact turns and not just focus on i-meets because it's just defense at best.


Miscellaneous for both CX/LD:
I don’t count flashing as prep time.tech > truth. the more you're proficient in the debate, the better your speaks will be. Respect your opponent's pronouns.Make me laugh.Everything must be together in one speech doc before you stop prep to flash.Time yourselves..1+ speaks if you make jokes about Jason Kaculi, Argha Bandyopadhyay, or Jason Yang.Flex prep is cool if your opponent is cool with it.Tag Team CX is fine.YOU MUST GIVE TRIGGER WARNINGS (LD)

Here are a list of people (in addition to Elijah) who i strongly agree with in terms of debate:
 
Michael Barlow 
Devane Murphy
SunHee Simon
Shania Hunt


Speaker Points: I'll give good speaks for:

smart CXethos and persuasiongood strategiesIf you take less prep timegood word econlovely overviewsNR/2AR collapse well (LD)
Don't be rude and don't read arguments that are bigoted, racist, homophobic, etc. because I will dock your speaks and make sure your coach knows on the ballot.



email me claudiaribera24@gmail.com if you have any questions or fb message me
  