
  Richter, Zachary
My name is Zach Richter. I did not debate in High School but debated for several years at Western Connecticut State University.


I am a long time critical debater on the college circuit.
I do flow, but I expect to be convinced and will give arguments which convince me personally extra leverage.

I am almost always willing to vote on a critical argument or performance.


If you say something that offends me (I am a queer stuttering autistic person), I will be much more likely to vote you down.


Use of hate speech or extremely overtly ableist argumentation will make me take another look at the other flow and be less likely to vote for you.
I did cut several policy arguments for my debate team.

I can and will vote on such policy argumentation. Of course, if my choice is policy or critical arguments, I’ll need an extremely convincing argument from the policy side.
So, of course, I may vote on policy affirmatives as well as disads and counterplans, especially if there is no other good choice.

I will vote on topicality, but the case has to be extreme and very well argued. T may not be the best argument to go for in front of me. (I’d rather you go for a DA or K.)

Framework debates are some of the best in policy debate. I can go either way if the arguments are made well. But I am an activist and former critical debater.

Theory is not a good main strat in front of me. Throughout my debate career, I found theory argumentation incomprehensible. If you’re going to run it, explain it very well. Do not expect me to accept arguments mostly comprised of jargon.


Of course the critique is very convincing. Win the fwk debate or the link debate and you probably have my ballot, unless something else goes wrong.
Other than that, do your best!

CX- I don’t care what goes on here. I don’t flow this, but I remember it and it can be used to convince me to go one way or the other. If your rude you’ll lose speaker points, but other than that, do what you will.

NOTE: If you have access needs in front of me, feel free to mention them before the round. I consider myself a major proponent of accessibility, especially as it relates to disabled people. If you need accommodations, I will accept them as long as they are reasonable and do not make the debate unfair.
  