
  To whom it may concern,

My name is Wyatt Risovi-Hendrickson and I do not expect you to know how to pronounce my last name.. Now that I have been struck by 3/4s of the teams in the state please take some time to view my judging philosophy.


About Me
 I debated for four years at Blue Valley Southwest High School in Olathe, Kansas. I competed mainly on the DCI circuit my Junior and Senior years. I had a tendency to read straight policy affs and my typical negative strategy was XO, PTX, ASPEC. I am now a debater at K-State and I run almost exclusively critical arguments. I enjoy watching good debates and I am willing to watch a diverse plethora of debates. Below I have detailed my views on certain arguments and if you have any questions I will post my email on the bottom of the page for you to contact me. Please, read the wiki before emailing me.

Paradigm
 I don't have any strong feelings towards any type of debate. I believe that my paradigm should not interfere with your debate. I will evaluate the debate based on the ROB or whichever team does the best.

Disclosure/Flash/Cross-ex
 Disclosure- Don't care if you do it.
Flash- Off prep
Cross-Ex- Open

Theory/Procedurals
 Really friendly to your condo and aspec arguments. I have a lower threshold for teams to win on these arguments compared to other judges. I will vote based on in round or potential abuse. I expect you to debate it well though if you want to win it.
 
 Topicality
 I don't really think that Topicality is that important. The only time I will strike a team down automatically is if they do not defend some type of action by the USFG. Caveat, I never said such action had to be topical. There needs to be ground for the negative to claim Disads against the Aff and ensure it isn't a moving target.

DA/CP
 I really like politics and XO. I don't mind if you read generics. I will listen to them and evaluate them. I don't have a problem with anything. DA's and CP's are pretty cut and dry.

Ks
 I am a K lover. I believe Ks should be in every debate round on the aff and the neg. Just make sure you know how to articulate your lit and be able to explain it. I am open to innovative and creative critical arguments on the aff and neg.

Questions- wrisovi@ku.edu
  