
  I debated for 3 years with Clear Brook High School on a relatively local TFA circuit, but near the end of my senior year I was able to get some experience on the TOC circuit.

World Paradigm:
I default to a truth testing paradigm, but if both debaters are debating in a comparative worlds format I'll obviously evaluate it as such. Under a truth testing paradigm, I know that it lends itself to the negative side, so I typically understand if a 1AR extension is sloppy. (I'll cover extensions below this.)

Speed:
I am entirely fine with speed. I'll clear you if I have to, but if you say the tags clearly enough I should catch enough to have it on the flow. 

DA/CP Ground:
All fair game, run it however you want. Just make sure I know how to evaluate it.

Theory:
I default to competing interps, if I judge a reasonability round I would prefer it if there were reasonability standards. I love standard turns and argumentation on the theory standards. I don't have a high threshold for RVI's, pretty much if you just give me reasons to accept an RVI that are uncontested and extended I have no choice but to accept the RVI.

I love a clean theory round, but don't bait theory if you can't handle it. Run a shell incorrectly and I warrant it as a reason for your opponent to run a "Bad Theory" RVI...I won't intervene though.

Kritiks:
If the Kritik is run correctly, I will buy it. I have spent a lot of time reading post-modern literature and throughout my senior year I ran a lot of Jacques Derrida. With that being said, if you run the literature incorrectly I will know, and I will down you. If you run anything Kritikal, please don't bastardize the literature. It is better to assume that I have read it than try to run it incorrectly to trick me and your opponent.

Basic Final Notes:

A. Extensions -- I know how hard a 1AR is when you have to go through 3 NIBS and a Theory Shell. I will grant some leeway on extensions but I want a clear/clean warrant extension every single time. I want to hear the warrant extended in any speech, for any argument.

B. Any Complex Philosophy -- Ask me before the round if I'm familiar with it. I mean I'm cool with you asking "How well read are you on D&G literature?" If I am unfamiliar with it, I can understand it pretty well, but give me a clearer view of it during the round. That's where speaking style comes in.

Basically, I'm pretty Tab. Play to your strengths and I'll evaluate the round as a neutral third party.

For any questions, feel free to send me an email at adriel.rivera1@gmail.com
  