
  I competed in LD for 4 years at Clements High School and qualified to TFA State twice. UT’18
Argumentation:
I have been out of the game for a year so I’m a little rusty, but as long as you’re stating what your argument is and how it functions in the round, you should be good. I’m fine with good traditional frameworks, plans, CPs, DAs, GOOD Ks, and most other things.Some things I’m not the most familiar with: topicality args, pre/post-fiat args, skep triggers. Again, if you articulate what these are and what you’re trying to do with them, I will vote on them.Most stock Ks are fine, but I’m not too familiar with very philosophy-dense critical arguments, so be extra clear as to what you’re advocating or I’ll be lost. Be clear with your philosophy in general.Don’t like pre-standard arguments too much as they’re usually blippy claims, but if you must run them, label them so.I will vote on theory if there’s abuse in the round, but I don't feel that theory should be used as a strategy to win the ballot. I default to reasonability and drop the argument unless given a reason otherwise. I also don’t vote on presumption args.Won’t vote on morally repugnant args (rape good, etc.)Read what you’re comfortable reading! Just make sure I understand it.Delivery:
Deliver how you’re most comfortable. Some strategies (e.g. standing up vs. sitting down) may affect volume and perceptual dominance, but it’s all up to you.I’ve never been the best at flowing speed, so be sure to slow down during tag lines and authors. I’m fine with going fast but I’m nowhere near accustomed to the CX speed, so definitely no double breaths. I would say that my comfort zone is about a 5 or 6 on a speed scale of 10. Also, signpost effectively or you’ll probably lose me.I’m really not a stickler on speaks; just try to remain fluent and perceptually dominant. That being said, unless you say something offensive, are rude, or lack composure and stutter like crazy during round, you’ll get high speaks.I prefer clear extensions to help me weigh the round easier: extend the claim and impact and tell me why it matters in the round.Miscellaneous:
Weigh your arguments! Make the decision calculus clear and well warranted and you’re Gucci.Don’t presume I know everything. You should do the work for me.CX is binding.At the end of the day, I hate judge intervention. Debate is an activity for the participants to strategize and execute however they wish, as long as their arguments are courteous and sane. Just tell me why you’re winning the round and have fun!
  