
  Name: Erin Rockey
 School: Western Wyoming Community College
 Position: Student/Forensics Team Member

DECISION MAKING PARADIGM
I try to remain outside of the debate where issues are concerned but will become active if rules of the game are jeopardized. Take the time to WIN the arguments and intervention will not be necessary. I am big into impacts. I am not going to decide the winner by how fast you talked or how much information you crammed into the time allotted. I am looking for a good flow with DA’s or Contentions that apply. 

SUBSTANTIVE ISSUES
There is no position that I will not listen to or vote for. However it would be a big mistake to assume that just because I will listen to a position that a vote is automatic. You have to WIN an argument for me to vote on it. My standard for topicality is simple: there should be standards, violations, and impacts. Without these three things it's nothing more than a press. As far as dis-ads, counter-warrants, procedurals, etc., are concerned the best way to win a position is to combine evidence and analysis. 

STYLISTIC CONCERNS
I don’t like speed. I am also not shy about letting you know when you are not being clear. If I tell you however you had better listen. If it isn’t on my flow it isn’t in the round. It is much more important to me that the information gets out (and is accurate) than imparted by only one person. I think debaters speak their best when they are most comfortable. To that extent I don't care whether you stand or sit when speaking and I especially don't care how you are dressed. I prefer to disclose my decision and comments after the round but do so with one caution: I give speaker points after the disclosure to make sure I don't have to listen to a rehashing of the same debate I just heard. Remember by the time I do the disclosure the decision has been made and nothing you can say will change it. So sit back, listen, and most of all learn. Finally, ORGANIZATION is a big thing with me. If you are not organized it is only going to hurt your speaker points.
  