
  Please look here for updates; This page was copy-pasted from Tabroom.com on 11/30/2014:
https://www.tabroom.com/index/paradigm.mhtml?judge_account_id=6550

Last changed Wed, Nov 5, 2014 at 12:24 PM PST

Hello Debate World,
I am Jeanette Rodriguez; I debated at Cal State Fullerton for 5 years and am a former graduate assistant. As a debater I focused on cultural criticisms as well as criticisms of modernity and coloniality. I am providing my background to highlight my interests, and not as a deterrent from having me in the back of the room. I see debate as a space for knowledge production, where we can use our ideas about the world to transform the world or make it a better place. The ideas and approaches are not exclusively critical approaches traditional teams also attempt to make the world a better place.

My approach to evaluating debate is pretty simple, the debaters get to decide what the debate should be about, be that a plan text or a critical approach to the topic. There are various approaches to the resolution and I am open to listening to your particular approach. That in mind I will provide a disclaimer, do not say evil things for the sake of competition, that approach is not persuasive at all! By evil I mean saying that genocides are good/necessary or that rape is ok, this extreme is not one that will persuade me to vote for you.

Framework
NEG- If you are going to go for framework make sure that the rebuttals contextualize the framework debate to the affirmative. Specificity in these debates goes a long way because often times framework is a blanket extension of standards with no explanation as to how the 1AC in particular causes the impacts.
on Theory- If you are going to run theory make sure it is not overly blippy and hard to follow, I will try my best to keep up but it is not my favorite approach.
AFF- If you are answering framework make sure you address their interpretation or provide a counter interpretation for the debate. I do not think that affirmatives have to be exclusively topical, but if you are not topical I do expect there to be some defense of a non-topical approach.

K AFF- Go for it/ Neg- Go for it

This was the approach I felt the most comfortable with so feel free to introduce new ideas , intrigue me and be persuasive.
Counterplan/ Disad Debates- I also used to engage debate from this position, I ran counterplans and disads because they are good strategic arguments that If done well provide a lot of clash in the debate so have fun with it.
Case Strats- Are awesome, I find case debate to be persuasive so if you have It read it.

Good Luck and Have Fun =)

If you have any questions please feel free to email me@ jntterodriguez@gmail.com
  