
    
Dana Rognlie 
Affiliation: University of Oregon/Concordia College/Moorhead HS 
Years judging high school: 4 
Years judging college: year the first 
 

"One must have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star" (Nietzsche, Z). That may be the most overused Nietzsche quote ever, but that's because it's a good one. Seriously, do what you want in debate. So long as I've been compelled there is a reason to vote, I'll do it. Most will cast me as a K-hack, which is fair but I'll listen to pretty much anything. I ran traditional policy arguments in high school, but primarily ran the K and non-trad arguments in my 4 years at Concordia. I am currently pursuing my doctorate in philosophy at UO.  
 
Topicality/theory: I view T and theory like a DA. Give me an impact and if it outweighs the other impacts in the round I’ll vote for it. 'Topical' affs can mean a variety of things for me. If the aff can and wants to defend a different conception of the resolution, I’m down with that but be warned that I loath hipsters. You need to give me an offensive reason why I should like your interpretation of the resolution/debate. I generally default that topicality is framework dependent, but if you think otherwise (especially in a non-trad debate) tell me. 
 
K both aff and neg: Let’s do it, but only if you are comfortable. A good K debater can explain the story of the criticism in relation to the case (on the neg) or the resolution (the aff). This seems obvious, but is rarely accomplished. Links should be well established. Spin is key, and so is impact analysis. You don’t have to have an 'alt' or have a 'plan,' but tell me what it is that you're doing and why it matters. What's the role of the ballot? Running an alternative framework will probably also be to your benefit. Make sure you have an offensive reason why I should prefer your interpretation. 
 
Performance: I get it. Make sure to tell me why your performance matters. What is the role of the ballot. If told not to flow, I will probably still write some stuff down—I have a bad memory. 
 
DAs and CPs: go for it. 
 
  