
  Warning: I no longer judge LD very frequently and consider myself removed from the activity at this point (i.e., when it comes to trendy argumentation and which schools/competitors are considered "good" in the circuit). 

I competed in LD on the local and national levels for four years at Fort Lauderdale High School (class of '09) and was a lab instructor at a summer institute for several years.

I am open to clear, fast debate. If a debater becomes unclear, I will say "clear" once and then stop typing/writing until the debater begins to annunciate properly. My speaker points are based on a combination of presentation and argument quality. My point range is usually between 26 (poor) to 29.5 (excellent). I rarely give 30s.
Use of theory needs to be well-warranted and impacted, and as long as well articulated, does not necessitate a "shell" format. I will be inclined to vote against you if your theory abuse story is clearly just a time suck (your opponent's responses must sufficiently support that hypothesis). I do need some kind of mechanism to weigh impacts; either through some comprehensive framework or criterion debate. In the absence of either then I will default to pure argument-impact analysis, as presented by the debaters.

When multiple advocacies (plans, counterplans, etc.) are "on the table" I need to be instructed as to which item(s) should be evaluated first and why. If there are "even if" scenarios please make sure to articulate them as clearly as possible (e.g., "even if I lose the disad, then...). I will not do any of the aforementioned work for you. 

Substantive, concise voting issues/crystallization during rebuttals makes me happy (and can earn debaters more speaker points). 

Please feel free to ask me clarification questions regarding my paradigm or my reason(s) for decision. Since this is competitive, academic activity, I expect that debaters, coaches, parents, and any other community members present treat me and each other with dignity and respect. I will not tolerate disrespect of any kind, whether from an adult or a student, so please address me accordingly.
  