
  I hate trying to identify my "philosophy".
Who I am as a judge is someone who loves really good debates in any form. Good debates I have seen take many forms. They generally involve debaters thinking and being creative, in addition to being able to articulate a methodology which they would like me to use for evaluating a debate. I try to do so. If they or I fail I revert to what I know best which is good old impact calculation based in policy debate theory. 

Typical concerns of debaters:
I have been out of the debate circuit for a bit but was mainly a policy debater/ coach.
I have been coaching on this topic and am familiar with it.
I coach a full team including LD and PF and am also familiar with the current topics of both and have also coached both extensively bit never competed in either.

Policy Debate: I am whatever kind of Judge you tell me to to be(feel a little like Julia Roberts saying that).There is no argument I won't listen to or vote on if it is argued well.
LD: more and more I find myself voting in LD the way I would in a policy round which is usually some variation on impact calculation. That is not my choice but the debaters. I can and will evaluate the round based in anything you argue from the more traditional Value based debates, and theory, to...whatever you make important.
PF- whatever? (do you even read these) please give me a way to evaluate these rounds from a key argument to a great piece of evidence just something that allows for an evaluation of the arguments.


Speed:
I am rusty but, for 95% of you I should be fine with anything that is clear. The last %may want to slow down on tags and I'll probably yell at you if I can't understand.
Pet Peeves: People who are mean to each other. It's a game, and while I appreciate and enjoy that it is a game that invokes passions, preferably a lot of humor, and a lot of jokes/ arguments made at the other teams expense that doesn't mean you get to be total jerks to each other.
People who talk down to me or to others as though they are the most brilliant people/debaters in the world.
Cheating: This is clipping cards/ not being clear about what was read in a round/ several other things that I'm not going to give you the idea of doing.
Stealing prep because of tech issues.
I'm sure there are others but that covers the basics.
  