
  I did LD at Coronado in Las Vegas for four years, competing locally and nationally. I placed at many tournaments and received 4th at nats. I now attend Princeton and I'm on the debate team there.
The Basics:
I enjoy circuit debate. However, it's really important that you understand the kinds of arguments you're making and the function of theory, Ks, ect. The most important thing to me is that you make logically sound, intelligent arguments. If you can do so with your case, that's all that matters. I will not vote you down for running progessive strategies, just make sure that you understand what you are saying and that what you're saying is actually relevant.
 
Speed: Spreading is freeing, I get it. I will listen to you and flow as best I can. If you become unclear, I will say clear. If you do not heed that warning, I will put my pen down until you slow down. I love debate--I want to be able to hear what you are saying. You are free to speak as quickly as you want, but make sure that you speak at a speed--and volume--in which your opponent and I are able to grasp what your argument is.
Framework: I often default to voting on framework. Please work hard to make your framework clear and strong. If you win framework for me, you are likely to win the round.
Kritiks: I will vote for a K only if it is clear to me that you actually understand what your K is saying. This can be done through a variety of ways--the most effective in which you break it down simply and explain it well. If you are unable to truly explain it, so that your opponent and I can grasp what you are saying, please don't argue it. There is no point in putting forth an argument that cannot be fairly understood and argued with. I'd prefer if you had an alternative point to your K other than "reject the aff/neg mindset". I will vote for your K if you give me a reason to. I will value the K under the framework that is won.
Role of Judge: I try my hardest to put aside my own beliefs during the round. I believe that my role is to evaluate what is done in the round. I am not going to be that guy that inserts his own opinion and arguments into the decision because it is not my debate, it's yours. I will evaluate what happens in the round.
Conduct: It is extremely important to me that there is fair, respectful conduct between the two parties in a round. I will not tolerate anything that could be deemed deliberately offensive or hurtful. Debate is meant to be a safe community in which everyone is to be treated with ample respect and kindness. I repeat, I will not tolerate disrespectful behavior. I don't think it's nice, I don't think it's fair, and I don't think that people should feel unsafe in this community.
Theory: I'll vote on theory if it is thought out, and not just hasty and unclear. For me to buy theory though, you really have to convince me that your opponent is doing something that is actually unfair or uneducational. I mayyyyyy vote on something that has to do with the side being unfair, but this is highly unlikely, as it is not your opponent's fault that he was randomly generated to be aff/neg this round.
Feel free to ask me anything else, about debate, about life. I would seriously love answering your questions and talking to you. REMEMBER THAT DEBATE IS SUPPOSED TO BE FUN SO HAVE FUN PLEASE. Seriously, these are going to be some of your greatest memories so take it all in when you can. Also have a wonderful day.
  