
  Affiliations: Harrison High School, North Crowley High School

I debated LD at North Crowley for 4 years, primarily competing on the national circuit my last two years. I participated in vastly different levels of debate, from local lay debate to circuit debate. I graduated in 2015 and I am currently at NYU where I debate college policy.

Short: In high school I never really defined one type of argument that I liked, instead I tried out a wide variety of positions and that's what I found to be really rewarding. The debate round is most definitely yours, not mine, I'm only here to observe and make the best decision possible. (Shout out to T. Fife) That being said I think that whatever argument you go for, I need an articulation of how I evaluate it in the round. This means I need a basic articulation of the different layers of the debate round and how they interact or what mechanism I use to weigh between the layers.

Theory: I was never a theory debater, but oh how I admire those that pulled it off. I think that theory as a strategic tool has partly been a detriment to the community. That's not to say that I won't vote for it, I just don't believe nor endorse it to be a good model for debate. I love when theory is a response to actual abuse in the round, and I especially love seeing the innovative arguments debaters are making both to back theory and refute theory. On the RVI, I think that "in round" determines what the RVI means. I don't default any paradigmatic issue on theory, that is what the debate round is for.

Framework: I was always a big fan of framework debate and how cool it can be. I think that regardless of the structure, the framework needs to generate a weighing mechanism and then have offense that impacts back to that standard. If you go for framework, I need interaction with your opponent's argument. Saying you preclude or your framework is a prerequisite doesn't do much for me unless there is a warrant being contextualized. I was never a big fan of tricks, but you can do you!

Policy: The LARP/Policy style arguments can be so amazing if debaters just weighed (compared) between their evidence. If y'all have an all out util debate, I am going to be very impressed and probably very pleased. One thing, I find this debate can also be rather boring, so keep it lively for me. I debated some policy in highschool and I'm competing at a collegiate level as well, I understand the basic functions of all the arguments, however if you are going for a more nuanced policy position, I need an explanation of what it is you're doing.

Kritik: This was the argument I usually went for and I think it's a really inclusive/fun way to approach the round. Don't run a K in front of me unless that is what you are used to. Alternatives need to construct a world other than "reject the AC"... Last, if you're going to run a K, invest the most work on the link story, I like K's but I don't like recycled K's, make them topical and if you don't, explain to me why they don't need to be topical. Kritiks also need some sort of framework, whether it is a roll of the ballot, whether it is the 1AC fw, your impacts need to be impacting back to something, no?

Micropolitics/ROB/ROJ: I think there are good justifications for why the debate space is unique in an educational sense. If you are reading a ROB or ROJ argument, I need two components, what is the end goal of the activity? and what is unique about the round/judge that helps reach that aim? If you are reading a narrative, I ask that you receive consent from everyone in the room and label any trigger warnings if necessary. I think that micropolitical positions help us understand what counts as offense in the round, or more generally how I approach the evaluation of the round. If you read a ROB/ROJ but don't use it to constrain or filter impacts later in the round, I will be very sad and disappointed in you.

Speed/Speaks: Speed is fine, I ask that you start at slightly less than your fastest speed and build up. If you have charisma, dynamism, or any strong personality, I ask that you use it in your favor and bring that to the round. Also, I think that speaks are not only a measure of presentation but of strategy. If you make a hella strategic argument than you'll get rewarded with higher speaks. Speaker points also indicate your interaction with your opponent, I won't condone any racist, sexist, homophobic, classist, or oppressive arguments or interactions. If you're acting like an awful person, you'll get awful speaks. I will try to average 28 for speaker points, (hopefully) Also, if you're going to read a section of spikes, or an argument that is going to be pivotal for your strategy in the later speeches, I would slow down and be clear. If I don't flow it, I won't be able to vote on it. This is true for any type of advocacy text, (plan text, standards, theory/T interps)

In round ethics: I think we can all agree that the debate round is a place for education, or at the very least it is an academic activity. As such, I think it is very importatnt to adhere to academia standards. Any misrepresentation of evidence, (shadily cut cards, rewording of articles, etc.) will cause an automatic loss. Further, I think that debate requires a reciprocal sharing of evidence, if one of you flashes or shares case, the other has to do the same.

Hall of Fame; This is a list of people I was very fond of in terms of their style of judging and just generally good people- Travis Fife, Michael Harris (CA), Bekah Boyer, Terrence Lonam, and Mark Gorthey

Any questions about how I evaluated a round, any help I can offer, or any concerns in general can be directed to my email at ar4341@nyu.edu or if you see me at a tournament, talk to me in person.
  