
  Michelle Rosin
 Detroit Country Day
 Wellesley College
 
In general I'm a pretty straight forward judge. I believe that you should run whatever arguments you're best at. The purpose of debate is to think analytically and learn... So that's the kind of debate I want to listen to. My judging doesn't come down to the argument itself but whoever conveys to me that they've won the round.

Despite this, I prefer substantive debates - not theory.. However, if arguments are dropped then, well, I have to vote you down.

Speaker points will be evaluated on how clear you are both during your speech and CX. This means that I want to hear you speaking during your speeches, not your partner. Please try to avoid tag-teaming unless necessary.

Additionally, please try to make your speeches as constructive as possible. Not only should you be addressing the arguments on the flow (VERY important) but you should give a coherent and relevant explanation as to what your argument is. I don’t require every argument to be backed up with evidence, in fact, I would prefer both arguments to ensure that you understand the argument.

With that said, please make sure that during rebuttals you not only extend evidence but also give a logical explanation as to how your cards, ect. answer the argument presented. Also, don’t be afraid to read new cards and make new arguments (but no new in the2)!

As for the presentation of your arguments please make sure to slow down during tags and enunciate your words. After the tag you can speed up.

Additionally, I love impact analysis on DA’s, it shows me that your thinking not only about answering the arguments but why you’re winning the round and how to evaluate the round.. This should be done with any arguments you're going for (don't go for everything, pick and choose). Explain to me why you're winning the round and who I should vote for. Overviews and Under-views are great. Also, don’t worry about reading millions of arguments, stick with what you’re good at and develop it!

Have fun, be clear, and be nice to your partner!

:-).
  