
  I find Wikispace prose is a bore,
something I detest and deplore.
I thought it'd be sick
if this were limerick
a poetical form I adore.

SUP BITCHES? as many might guess,
I debated at dear GDS.
For four years it was silly
to watch Jim Gentille
consume food and make general mess.

Speaker points, I think they're quite fine.
Punnery is really quite divine.
Witty repartee
will provoke, much "hooray!",
for which I'll provide "29!"

Take time to remain organized.
Messy debate is despised.
It deals quite a blow
to immaculate flow,
of which all good debate is comprised.

Girls in debate are a gem.
Please, gentlemen: respect them.
Sexism is weak
(and will hurt your speaks);
Sorry if I'm overly fem.

Arguments: I'd have to say
that I'm DYING to vote on the K.
But make sure to EXPLAIN
or I'll get a migraine,
much to e'eryone's great dismay.

If you're aff, put framework away.
It's a lie, and it's just not okay.
Make substantive claims
and kick ass and take names,
but theoretical framework won't weigh.

K debaters: links are case turns
(a lesson I worked hard to learn).
Contextualize, please,
and you'll beat them with ease,
a truth I've had time to discern.

But don't worry, I'll vote for who wins.
Politics, though it brings chagrin,
is really legit
and I will vote on it.
LET THE DEBATING BEGIN!


and all other argument are okay too. limericks make me hard. (zack said this, so i guess he likes limericks too)


ALSO, here's a cool quote, y'all:
For our generation, the entire world seems to present itself as “familiar,” but since that’s of course an illusion in terms of anything really important about people, maybe any “realistic” fiction’s job is opposite what it used to be—no longer making the strange familiar but making the familiar strange again. It seems important to find ways of reminding ourselves that most “familiarity” is meditated and delusive.
 

oh ps, i have NO DESIRE WHATSOEVER TO HEAR CONSULT COUNTERPLANS; "no value to life if everyone is dead" is a thing i'd urge you not to say. 
  