
  I debated for West High School in Salt Lake City for 4 years. Bunch of bid rounds, no bids. I'm a Junior at Harvard, but don't debate. Run whatever.

Harvard '13 will be the first tournament I have judged since Harvard '12.

Some hints:
Everything: Your analysis of warrants is more important to me than your cards. This doesn't mean you get to lie about what your cards say, but it does mean that for your cards to have weight I need more from you than a rehashed tag. And never forget: smart analytics can be deadly timesavers.The KCommonplace: We were a K team on the aff and neg in hs, but I'm a math-bio major. I slept through Intro to Western Intellectual History the day we did Heidegger. My understanding of psychoanalysis is limited to punchlines in Woody Allen movies. This isn't to say I don't like critical debates- in fact I like them very much- but you must make sure you're explaining how your position interacts with the other team's arguments in a way that an intelligent person with no background can find compelling.Wacky/performance: A friend of mine once said, when talking about the gallery show of a friend who does film/performance art: "When it comes to those kind of installations, whether the show is good or not really comes down to the explanation posted by the artist. Otherwise it's just how good the wine is."Theory: I would be a happier person if I didn't have to watch any theory debates, but I understand that it can be strategic and/or necessary. Some things are probably cheating. Make sure to slow down a bit and really explain the warrants to your arguments. I think debate is primarily an educational activity, and that this is propelled by meaningful clash, so use that to your advantage. If I have a high barrier on theory, it is only because I expect explanations rather than quips.Paperless: Your opponents should be able to have full access to evidence you read, even if they don't have a laptop. If you normally flow on your laptop, it is your burden to figure something out that provides them with that access. While I am delighted about teams starting to go paperless, as someone who worked in high school to pay for all my own travel, I am sensitive to the idea that a several hundred dollar piece of machinery might soon be an additional barrier to entry to the activity.Please be nice to your opponents. And especially to your partner. Mocking unintelligent arguments can be funny, but malice towards others will reduce your speaker points.Remaining questions, quick takes:case: LOVE IT.cps: hard to convince consult is fair, case specific pics make my dayconditionality: probably ok
  