
  Aditya Rout
[Last Updated: 7/27/2015]
__aditya.rout@gmail.com__

Experience
I debated for 4 years at St. Francis High School in Mountain View, CA. I competed on the national circuit and finished my high school career with an appearance in elimination rounds of the TOC. As a 2A, I have read both traditional policy affirmatives and soft left/middle of the road affirmatives.
The following are merely paradigms I default to in round; do not hesitate to persuade me away from my predilections. Debate should be about leveraging your own strengths, not appealing to mine. 

Non-Traditional Affirmatives
Regardless of whether or not you decide to instrumentally defend government action, I believe the topic exists for a reason and that affirmatives should be related to and/or in the direction of the resolution.

Framework
If framework is a part of your neg strategy, I am more compelled by substantive rather than theoretical questions of what debate should be about. I value discussions about methods/praxes over fairness/limits.

Topicality
I’ll default to competing interpretations unless convinced otherwise.

Theory
I lean aff on conditionality. I will certainly vote on theory if there’s a story of abuse (especially when it comes to things like process/delay counterplans) but rarely on cheapshots. If you decide to go for theory, you should devote enough time for it in all of your speeches, not just the last one. 

Kritiks
I enjoy the argument but don’t make it painful to listen to. This means you should have links/impacts that are contextualized to the claims of the 1AC (as opposed to the status quo) and a well-explained alternative. 

Disadvantages/Counterplans
I enjoy these debates in general but the more specifically crafted these strategies are, the better. For instance, I like nuanced advantage counterplans but the politics disad bores me. 
A good counterplan should be textually and functionally competitive. If not, be ready to defend your choice. 

If you have any further questions, feel free to ask me in round!
  