
  I debated LD for 3 1/2 years at both Hightower High School and Elkins High School in Sugar Land, TX on both the TOC and TFA circuits from 2011-2014. I went to TFA state my junior and senior year in LD and I went to nationals in both congress and LD my junior and senior year as well.

I am familiar with both traditional and progressive forms of debate so you can run either in front of me and I'll flow it as long as I understand it.

I haven't judged a lot yet and don't have too many concrete preferences. If you have anything specific you need to know, ask questions!

Things that are cool with me:
Speed is fine. Go as fast or as slow as you want.Slow down for authors and tag lines...not something serious but I'll take it into account for speaker points. I can understand and follow speed but if you are unclear or start jumbling your words together then it becomes an issue. I will give a warning and then simply flow what I can hear. I will evaluate anything you run so long as you explain why I should.Default to a comparative worlds paradigm.TheoryDon't run frivolous theory.If it is in out-rounds and you attempt to run theory for strat purposes I default reasonability.KritiksTry to have a logical link, impact, some good f/w, and an alternative that provides some solvency. Role of ballots are helpful too.If it is dense philosophy, slow down on tags and explain the card.If I don't understand it, I won't vote on it. So make sure I am following along.DA's, Plans, PIC's are all cool with me.Traditional ArgumentationI'm fine with this and can keep upIf it's some weird FW explain it well so I can weigh the roundMake sure you engage in the framework debateGive me an impact calc and crystallize everythingRoad maps pleaseeeee<3Spikes/TricksLabel your tricks and explain implications in the original speech, makes it more likely I’ll vote off them.


Things I'm not a fan of:
Miscut evidenceWarrant-less thingsMake sure you make it clear to me the claim, warrant, impact. If you just give me the author and the tag and tell me to extend it without telling me why I should and why it matters, I won't evaluate it in your favor.Being meanIf you know your opp is not as experienced, don't be a jerk. Slow down and give me a traditional debate if you have to. Kindness will help your speaks not hurt them.Sass is funny sometimes, being rude is not.Morally repugnant argumentsif you have to question it, it's probably bad.ex. rude, racist, sexist, homophobic, etc. arguments that make the round uncomfortable
Misc:
You should disclose...duh.Don't be rude during CX...with that said, CX is binding.Fine with flex-prep, but don't try to use it as an extra CX. Don’t presume I know anything. You should be explaining terms to me. I’m not doing that work for you.Don't make blippy arguments.I'll disclose speaks if you ask. I base them on how clear you are, the quality of arguments, whether or not you listen to my paradigm, general entertainment value, etc. 

Hope this helps! Ask me in round for anything else. Good luck! :)
  