
  I participated in NFL tournaments during my high school years which occurred during the span of time between when Messrs. Lincoln and Douglas engaged in their famous debates and when LD became an officially defined style of debating by the NFL. I engaged in policy debate, interp (both H & D) and extemporaneous speaking events. I have judged debate rounds, primarily LD, for the past two years. 

I will flow the debate and generally respond favorably to organized, well-reasoned and presented arguments. Numbering the contentions is helpful. I look for evidence to be offered in support of logical arguments, and conclusions that follow from the reasoning. I will pay special attention to how each debater formulates and presents counter arguments and rebuttals to points made by the other. 

While I prefer a debate that is focused on the given resolution over one centered on the rules of debate, I’ll listen to theory and will follow along with enthusiasm and rapt attention whatever direction the debaters choose to take in the round. In this regard I view a debate as a verbal joust where the jousters may elect to employ words of their own choosing to engage their opponent, and I will judge based upon what I hear. 

I have only a foggy notion of what a kritik is, so if you would like to present one, please do explain it thoroughly, succinctly, and using the smallest possible words. 

Eye contact, however brief, is a plus. It reminds me that we are all humans of a similar tribe. CX is a good time to look up. 

Respect, clarity, elocution, sincerity, clarity, persuasiveness and clarity will draw the highest speaker points. 

Regarding speed, I prefer the energetic pace of an impassioned conversation over the rat-a-tat-tat staccato of spreading. That said, if you feel the need for speed, go for it. I’m game to try to keep up with any rate of expression you choose to attempt. If a contention is flashed by so quickly that I cannot scribe the briefest of words onto my flow sheet the argument will not register. And if I look like I’ve stopped following the debate and am instead thinking about fishing I probably am.
  