
  This page is for Darren Runyon

Darren debated in High School for San Dieguito High School, for the University of Redlands in College, and at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.
Darren has also previously taught Labs at the Stanford National Forensics Institute

Judging Philosophy:

When I order the round I vote on issues using the following priority:

Topicality and Kritik with pre-fiat implications. I will vote on T. Presumption is Aff is topical unless proven otherwise.
Kritik with post Fiat implications with justification as to why it is more important than quantifiable mpx
Stock Issues - make it convincing
Disad/CP/Kritik - don't make me draw tables of bodycounts, if the debate is coming down to impact quantification, you need to tell the story. I don't know how to weigh a bottomless pit of nuclear holocaust babies versus soul murder, you need to make the case.

That said, I will vote as I am asked to, if you want to have some fun with the round, I'll play, but you have to offer some justification as to why it's legitimate

Key things for me:

Signpost - Let me know where you are. If I'm lost on the flow because you're reading blocks for the #3 disad and I'm on the CP flow, we're going to have a bad time until I figure out where you are. When you signpost, make sure you pause for a second and let me switch flows, I'm fast, but not as fast as you can probably talk.
Make your tag lines clear: I flow tag, author, date, if you mumble or don't clearly read your tags and then plan on referring to the Smith in 08 card 100 times in your blocks and overviews, you better make sure you read the tagline clearly so I know which card you are talking about
I will ask for Evidence to read: but normally its only for my curiousity, I won't intervene, you're doing the debating and if you can't properly defend your evidence, I'm not going to do it for you. But I will read your card and tell you whatyou could do better next time.
Speed: if you want to go fast, I want you to as well, if you're too fast, I'll ask you to slow... but that doesn't mean get sloppy. A sloppy fast round is MUCH worse than a slow articulate one. If I shout CLEAR at you, it doesn't mean to go slower, it means to enunciate better. There is a difference.
Tell a Story: the best debaters weave postions together so they tell a cohesive story, A leads to B leads to C which leads to global thermonuclear D and Soul Murder E which is worse still. If your positions don't match, the foundation upon which your strategy is built is weak at best. I'm not a fan of the Spaghetti against the wall approach, I'd much rather you have 4 intelligent positions in the round than 11 blippy unsubstantiated ones.

Speakerpoints:

Points are primarily determined in the Rebuttals, although failure to clearly read tags in the constructives will result in a loss of points. Speaker points are not a reflection of who won, but of technique, and even the most technically sound debaters have bad rounds. I will award a low point win if the situation justifies it. 
To the person doing the 1A: You have the easiest and hardest speeches in the round, believe me I know and understand this. 
To the person doing the 1N: you have the 2nd easiest and then potentially the most pointless speech in the round. I respect 1NR's that make themselves relevant into the 2NR... so if you give a 1NR and your partner drops all of your positions in the 2NR, clearly there was no actual debating going on in your speech, only 5 minutes of you filling the air with noise the 1AR has to respond to. You won't impress me or anyone else with that. That being said, don't drag a dead dog into the 2... be smart, I'm following whats going on... just make sure you make yourself relevant. 

Time Management:

having assisted in running tournaments before, I am sympathetic to those in the Tab room. That means two things: 1) I keep a running clock, as soon as CX is over, prep time starts. I'll prompt you, but the assumption is unless its the CX after the 2NC you're probably going to be using prep. 2) Disclosure: I will be happy to talk about the round with you while I walk to the Tab room to turn a ballot in, or anytime after that. I will not do a 30 minute review of your round with you right after, maybe a couple minutes but in depth conversation is best saved for the walk back. Help me help the tab room keep the tournament running on time.

If you have a question, please don't hesitate to ask.
  