
  
Phone screen version- 
I judge the round I see (I will not make arguments for you) and I vote off of what I am told (weigh arguments/voters). I flow well, quickly and prefer speed. If you strive for perfect speaks use CX time mainly for CX and stand during speeches.  
Line by line version- 
 History- 
I was a LD debater for 4 years at Ankeny High School (95-99). After high school, I judged LD debate during college (for Ankeny and Iowa City West) and my first couple of years teaching (Ankeny). I was the assistant coach at Ankeny (07-10), where I work mainly with the LDers. I am currently the head debate coach at Ankeny where I work with all of the debaters. My forensics experience also includes numerous ie events as a participant and as a judge.  
 Speed- 
I prefer speed. I flow well– I love when debaters slow down or pause during the reading of the names of cards/ criterions/ tag lines/ basically anything needed for signposting purposes. If your speech is not clear I will yell clear.
Speaks-
I tend to go up or down from 27. But, I pay attention to what I have given other debaters at the tournament. If I happen to give a 27 and then don’t judge another debater as good as the first then the highest I will give is 26.5.
Theory-
I'll listen to and evaluate theory if it's warranted, structured correctly, and necessary. There needs to be justification for why theory is the first place to vote in the round and why the abuse is clear enough to drop the debater instead of the argument.
Flex Prep/ Presentation-
If your goal is 30 speaks- then use CX mainly for CX, but other than that I’m good with it if both debaters agree. In the quest for perfect speaks I think debaters should stand during speeches (however, I realize that this might be a sinking ship ideal within LD).
A priori/ critical arguments/ case format/ etc-
I do not add my own two cents into the debate. I judge rounds based off what the debaters say (I will not make arguments for you) and where the debate goes, not off of what I know or think the debate should be about. Good arguments that are warranted and weighed in context of the resolution will win the debate. But, if an a priori goes without response I will vote off of it.  
Comparative worlds/ truth testing- 
Again, I will do what I am told and follow the arguments that are most persuasive (content not delivery). I am not committed to one over the other. I also think that this can really depend on the topic and case structure.
Voters/Weighing arguments
Tell me why I am voting for you or how you have won the debate. Make my job easy and make your win predictable.  
  
  
 

  