
  I competed for four years in Public Forum, Congress and Extemp for Brophy College Preparatory in Phoenix, AZ and was the 2013 Arizona State Champion in Public Forum Debate. I also finaled at Nationals and the TOC in Congress and Extemp.

PF Paradigm: 

I will flow all rounds and will make my decision based on the flow. Speaker points will be determined both by the quality of arguments a speaker makes and the clarity with which those arguments are presented. A few things to keep in mind:

1) If I don’t know where to put an argument you make on my flow, I won’t write down your argument. Make sure you’re sign posting where you are on the flow and tell me where to write your argument. If I don’t have an argument on my flow, I can’t/won’t vote on it.

2) Make sure your argument is well warranted. Understanding what a warrant is and the role it plays in the debate is what separates a good team from an ok team. If you can clearly (and correctly) articulate your own warrants and contrast them with your opponent’s warrants. If you do this, you’ve got a very good shot at picking up my ballot.

3) Please drop arguments in the summary and final focus. These speeches are too short for you to discuss every argument made so far in the round. Please tell me which arguments I should focus on and which I should ignore when filling out my ballot.

4) You’re welcome to speak as fast as you like, but the best PFers in the country don’t need to speak much faster than a conversational pace, so why do you?

LD Paradigm:
Please note that I never competed in Lincoln Douglas, and while I have judged many LD rounds, I am not the judge to try out your new theory argument in front of. I will flow all rounds and will make my decision based on the flow. Speaker points will be determined both by the quality of arguments a speaker makes and the clarity with which those arguments are presented. A few things to keep in mind:

1) If I don’t know where to put an argument you make on my flow, I won’t write down your argument. Make sure you’re sign posting where you are on the flow and tell me where to write your argument. If I don’t have an argument on my flow, I can’t/won’t vote on it.

2) Make sure your argument is well warranted. Understanding what a warrant is and the role it plays in the debate is what separates a good team from an ok team. If you can clearly (and correctly) articulate your own warrants and contrast them with your opponent’s warrants. If you do this, you’ve got a very good shot at picking up my ballot.

3) Please don't make any off case arguments. While I conceptually understand how to deal with these arguments, having never competed in LD myself, I do not recommend trusting me to make the correct decision. If I were you, I would play it safe and save stick to two pieces of paper.
  