
  Rutledge, Michael

Debate coach at Clear Brook High School for 12 years. Primary focus is on LD and PF with Extemp and other IEs. Not a CX coach, but knowledgeable enough to judge. Competed in CX in high school through 1991. More traditional and stock. Prefer little to no spread. Looking for argument quality over quantity. Speaks MATTER.






    
        Which events do you typically judge?

        Lincoln Douglas

    
    
        What is your competitive speech or debate experience?

        CX competitor, high school ; coach LD, PF and IEs for 13 years

    
    
        High School

        Palacios High School

    
    
        College

        Sam Houston State University

    
    
        Where have you coached?

        Clear Brook High School

    
    
        Approximately how many rounds have you judged this season?

        20

    
    
        How many years have you been judging?

        15

    
    
        I would prefer to listen to debates that were about these types of arguments:

        Direct clash, no Kritiks, Line x Line, Value/Criterion

    
    
        I give good speaker points to debaters that:

        Clear, spread sparingly and if they do, are extremely clear and precise

    
    
        I would give low speaker points to a debater that:

        Do not adapt to the judge and round

    
    
        My favorite argument when I was debating was:

        Not sure how to answer this

    
    
        I won't vote on these types of arguments:

        Kritiks

    
    
        Rate the following argument types

        Topicality: Alright
Theory: Alright
Counterplans: Alright
Disads: Awesome
Kritiks: Terrible
Framework: Awesome
Speed/Spreading: Terrible

    
    
        Explain your ratings, if you like

        No explanations necessary, IMO

    
    
        Comments on flowing or speed:

        Debate is about DEBATE, not about speed or who can say the most in the least amount of time.

    
    
        Other things a team should know about?

        

    



  