
  I debated for 3 years at Skyline High School in Oakland, California through the Bay Area Urban Debate League I now debate at Weber State University.

I like critical arguments and in particular I have a keen awareness of arguments regarding race, gender, class and sexuality. I have a very high threshold for evaluating critical arguments. I fundamentally believe that critical arguments, kritik’s in particular question the basic assumptions of affirmative cases. I debated using critical arguments throughout my high school career but I will not disregard traditional straight up policy arguments; I can understand and evaluate these arguments and I will do so fairly to all teams. Also everyone needs to be able to articulate, justify and impact your arguments. Impact analysis is absolutely critical for me in terms of evaluating debates. I cannot stress that enough.

Regarding specific arguments:
Topicality: I do not like topicality. If a team is blatantly untopical I will listen and evaluate this argument if you’re running T just to run T, or as a time skew or any random reason I most likely will not vote on it.
Theory: I dont like theory, but as the case with most arguments in debate, Theory is no exception, arguments need impact analysis. Tell me why it is important to vote on the unfair argument if you don’t have a good explanation of this or extensions I won’t vote on it. 
Framework: I dont like framework and will evaluate the argument if it is executed, extended and explained well however it will honestly take more effort to convince me for example why an identity or other critical team is unfair to debate and why policy arguments should be favored but again if you explain it well and your arguments have the in/out of round impacts that you articulate and extend well I will vote on it.
Side notes:
I don’t count prep for flashing but if you overdue it I’ll restart the timerI’ll keep time for you if you need me tooThere’s a difference between emotion/confidence in debate and just being plain rude, if you’re being rude to your opponent in round and I catch it, it will affect your speaker points
30 speaks: if you want it you have to be flawless http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ReHs5EsVb9w
  