
  tl;dr: I try to be completely neutral but I do have a few biases in favor of progressive/policy argumentation. AND CITE THINGS. See below for specific biases.
 I do my best to be tabula rosa, or a blank slate. Whatever you read to me and tell me matters I will vote on. But I am biased a bit toward stuff I like, see below:
 
I did LD debate for all three years I was in high school, and finished 2nd in WA State in 2013-2014, so LD is where I have my experience. However, I was a progressive LD debater so I can understand most policy-type arguments, and most spreading (up to a point, I’ll yell clear if I can’t).

I was a hugely kritkal debater so I’m inclined to believe that Ks are a valid argument unless you make an extremely good response for why they shouldn’t be allowed. Better to attack their links, usually the weakest part of a kritik. I also really like util argumentation and strongly impact based cases. They're cool because you can actually weigh against your opponent. Heck yeah I'll vote for impact turns like "Nuke war good" if you support them and your opponent does a crap job responding.

FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS HOLY MAKE EXTENSIONS. IF YOU DROP IT AND IT'S NOT IN THE LAST COLUMN OF MY FLOW WITH A CLEAR LINE I WON'T VOTE ON IT. Also, please, please do weighing analysis and compare your arguments to your opponents. It makes it so much easier for everyone involved and makes me more likely to vote for you since you made it obvious where you stand. ALSO SIGN POST.


Speaker Points:
 How to get a 30: Speak clearly, weigh your evidence, be kind to your opponent especially in CX (you can be firm just not rude), make a pun that fits well with your case and I will promise you a 30, DO ALL YOUR SPEECHES I know sometimes as a novii it can be scary and you may feel you've lost the round, but just keep going okay? Don't walk out on the round.

How NOT to get a 30: Make me yell clear a billion times, be really rude or condescending to your opponent, walk out of the round early, question my decision in a super rude way (basic questions are fine just don't be accusatory.)


If You Read Off Your Computer Read This:
 Have a paper copy for your opponent (they may not have a laptop, tablet, etc. don't be classist)
ORHave a reading computer
ORLet them shoulder flow and have your computer during their prep. I don't care if your flow is on your PC you should have brought a copy of your cases.
ORIf they have a computer you can flash them your case if they want it. Don't be a jerk and steal people's cases.
UPS 2015 Specific Stuff:
 The tournament invitation says: "Debaters and judges are encouraged to reject discourse that devalues other members of our community based on their race, age, gender, gender orientation, class, sexual or religious orientation, or any reason that is not directly related to the arguments that they present." which makes me more inclined to listen to kritiks of language or kritiks specifically of things an opponent said. Always support your K, I won't automatically vote for it, but at the same time, this invite makes them more run-able.

9:03AM Update:
 FOR THE LOVE OF GOD CITE THINGS.
 
6:15PM Update:
 I was not a huge philosophy debater. If you're going hard on philosophy THAT IS FINE but I will need you to go a bit slower than you usually do, and make sure you crystallize as you go and at the end of the round.Flex prep is fine if your opponent is fine with it.If you bring an extra pen I will love you forever, because I'm flowing on my computer and forgot a pen.I love topicality, just make it legit.Theory is messy all the time. Run it if you must, but only with actual abuse and BE CLEAR
  