
  Debated at W.T. White High School for a year and now debates for University of North Texas

If I had to pick a preference on a round, I'd prefer to hear a more policy oriented round, I'm a tab judge that can be persuaded to vote on most anything.

Guidelines:

T - reasonability can be persuasive, i default to competing interpretations, impact your standards, tell me why they matter.

K- Don't run them. Chances are, I won't have any idea what's going on, and I would feel bad if I voted for the wrong side on a debate. Give me a few months, and I'll get back to you on that.

CP - I enjoy them, have a clear net benefit, they should be competitive with the aff

Disadvantages: I'm good with it. But please do specific impact calculus in comparison to the aff. It makes the debate much better and easier to judge.

Theory- Sure, go for it, I'm not going to say it's a round winner every time. Don't spread through a theory block and expect me to get it all down, impact your standards, tell me why they matter.

Speed- CLARITY IS VERY IMPORTANT! Go ESPECIALLY slow on tags and cites, if I misflow something it's going to impact you a lot more than me in the debate. Also, give some type of notification when you are moving to a different argument.

Evidence- I will read particular evidence after the round if the quality is questioned or if during comparison/calculus in the last rebuttal the warrants are questioned. If you think you have a good card, explain why it is good and relevant to the particular debate and I shouldn't have to read it after the round. Doing this type of in-depth analysis is a good way to get better speaker points.(so is being funny)

Case - Impact/case turns are great

Prep Time- Flashing of files won't result in the use of prep time. However, if I notice that you're taking forever and/or trying to type out more stuff, prep time will be used, and it will really anger me. This will clearly show in your speaker points. 

Speaker points:

Things that will increase your speaker points include - running an argument well, being funny without being rude, utilizing cross-x time well, being tricky and smart

Things that will decrease your speaker points include - stealing prep, mumbling, your arguments not interacting with their arguments, being rude, attempting to be funny but coming off as rude, saying "this is my cross-x."

And please guys/gals, no snide remarks after cross-ex. I hate it when people try to get the last word in. 
  