
  Assistant Coach for East Kentwood HS

Theory/Framework/T:
I think a lot of these debates are arbitrary limits on the topic/debate, but that's mostly because they aren't impacted well. I don't know why what ground you say you're losing is critically important and you should maybe be doing better research. I have no sympathy toward traditional policy frameworks mostly because I think the ones you are all reading encourage lazy debate. Roleplaying may be good in some instances but I don't think it's the only kind of education that is important. I would rather see ya'll skip this debate and directly engage your opponents argument specifically and strategically.
However, sometimes these arguments are necessary and a team may be doing something unethical/bad for debate. In those instances, I am completely willing to hear it. I just would like to see these arguments used sparingly and appropriately.

Counterplans and Disads:
...are cool, I guess. Telling me what the heck the counterplan does and how it solves the aff is cool too. Expanding link stories in the block and doing in-depth risk comparison is THE COOLEST. Zero risk is possible.

Ks:
These are my favorite. Not all of them, but a lot of them.
Examples of ones I do like: Womanism, Afro pessimism, Colonialism, Security, Cap Bad, Fear Ks
Examples of ones I do not like: Schmitt, Heidegger, Nietzsche (Schmitt because its usually racist, the other ones mostly because no one does a sufficient job explaining them.)
The K does not have to have an alternative; I will vote for the status quo if the impact is systemic. 
Do the work! I won't ever just assume there is a link. Make framing issues at the top and resolve impact and link debates for me. What do impacts of nuclear war and biod look like in a world where ontology comes first? etc. etc.
Perms need to have a text and I would like to know how they function, pls.

Ethics:
I don't tolerate cheating or rudeness. I don't have all the answers, but I will resolve these issues the best way I know how.
In instances where I believe a team is cross-reading/clipping. I will assign zero points and a loss.
I ABSOLUTELY WILL NOT tolerate racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, classism, or any type of bigotry. I get it, you wanna impact turn --- if you want to read rape good, colonialism good, xenophobic arguments (especially on the Latin American topic) etc. pref someone else, because I will not listen to it and you'll lose.
As the adult in the room, I reserve the right to intervene where I see necessary and best for the community and well-being of the debaters. As much as you want me to be a blank slate, I am also an educator.
  