
  Steven Sanchez
Debated 2 years for Hunter High
4th Year policy debater for Weber State University


Overall Philosophy:
Run whatever you like. I am open to all arguments just as long as you can articulate and run them effectively. I think Debate should be inclusive of all arguments, regardless of whether or not they're in a resolutional boundary. Please, explain your argument thoroughly. At the end of the day, I want to put in as little work for your argument as possible. This meaning that I'll vote for your 5-Planked CP or your K, but if I don't understand exactly what it does, if there's any risk that the plan/advocacy/perm solves best, then I'll be more inclined to vote for those args. Respect your opponents. Understand that debate is a home for a lot of people, and professionalism and respect is something that is crucial for maintaining a healthy and educational environment.Impact comparison is key. Evidence is a tool for well developed arguments, and explanation will get you further than evidence ever will.
I welcome all arguments you want to bring to the table.
I am mostly a K debater in college and though I'm not familiar with every criticism, I think that it has a ton of potential for winning my ballot. That being said, I am not afraid to vote on framework/T if it is developed well enough. Bonus points if you have specific case turn arguments. Make sure to do a lot of link analysis. Good evidence and impact comparisons will go far in front of me. Kudos to you if you've done your research and have specific alts/PICs that solve the majority of the aff. I love these debates. Just be sure to slow down when you get to your CP/alt text.

I do have a high threshold for theory. In round abuse works best. I have rarely voted on potential abuse, and I don't find those arguments compelling in the slightest. I think conditionality is a good way to test the affirmative, but if you think it's necessary to run 6+ off, I might be a little more inclined to err on conditionality being a bad idea. Specifically tailored theory explanations are preferred. Be sure to slow down while reading your theory blocks if you want me to catch everything.

Ethos can get you very far in front of me. Make me believe in your argument just as much as you do. Your speaking has a lot of power within the debate space, so be sure to speak as clearly, assertively, and as passionately as you can. Being an effective speaker will always help you stay ahead/catch up in the debate.
  