
  Hi guys, my names Arthur (but you can call me AJ)
I did LD in high school and now I do parliamentary debate for the University of Nevada, Reno.
I have no problem with speed, but try to be respectful to your opponent, if you're trying to spread him out and exclude him that doesn't make for a good debate and that'll definitely hurt your speaker points.
Be respectful to your opponents. This should be an inclusive event and if you're being extremely rude that accomplishes nothing but hurting your pathos and turning others off to debate.
I will not flow the names of cards. I won't have anything flowed as "Paulson in 08" I'll have it 
I have no problem with theory, just be sure to structure it right (interpretation, violation, standards, voting issues) I do think T is a good strategy but only if you run it as a strategy, I will vote on RVI's if you just run T as a time suck.
I'm don't mind kritiks but if you run them you need an alt. If there is no alt, i have a nonunique disad with no voter's and you lose. Also please try and make your K understandable, if you run some obscure concept and explain it in as a contrived manner as possible at the very least you will take a hit on speaker points and if i don't know how your K works you're probably going to lose.
As for most other people who don't run K's and theory and what have you, I like obvious voting issues and absolutely require impact analysis if you want to win. If nobody gives me any voters I will decide how the debate went and you might not like my decision so be sure to explain to me how you won and your opponent lost.
As for the value & value criterion debate if you guys don't argue that at all pass the first Neg speech I will default to net benefits for both the value and value criterion as that will minimize judge intervention, but if you can prove to me that you can achieve your value better than your opponent can achieve his and then prove his value is inferior, you will win the round. 
Feel free to ask me any questions you have about all this, but I'm not just going to reread it to you in round

TL;DR you can spread but play nice, I have no problem with T, have and alt for the K, give good voting issues, weigh impacts, and i default to net benefits absent a value debate.
  