
  I would guess that I am very stock issues when it comes to most arguments. Theory and K's are my only exceptions and i'll explain below. I have 3 Years of judging experience in TFA circuits and 10 years judging in UIL and Urban debate circuits. I prefer that you don't go super fast for spreading. I have a head injury that gives me headaches very easily and spreading too fast can trigger it easily. For that reason, please flash me the speech documents before you start your speech so that I can have a visual in case I get lost. That still doesn't mean that you can spread in front of me. My injury makes it so that it will inhibit the rest of my thought about the case, so unless you don't want your judge to understand the aff/neg, don't spread please.

Affs: I will listen to all affs and I think that you should weigh them in round against negative arguments. They largely go unused in debate and it just seems like a waste. The aff frames the debate, make sure you use that advantage that the aff has.

CP: Make sure its distinct enough from the aff to actually make a difference. There aren't many ways to mess up a CP, but one of the things that I will not vote for is if your CP doesn't resolve case or have a NB with a clear and specific link to the aff.

DA: Go for it. Make sure you explain and extend the link argument and impact calc otherwise I will flow aff.

K: Please don't go for them. I really do think that they are a move away from policy debate where teams debate about competing policy options. My head injury makes it super hard to understand your jargon that you read, for example Baudrillard's theories. You could go for it in front of me, but if I don't understand it in any means, I will not vote for it.

T: Go for it, but make sure that it isn't three T shells that you kick in the 2NR. Fairness is critical for me when judging CX. I will vote against you if you waste our time in debate. I view debate as a very productive space that allows people to discuss competing policy options, not a game that you can try to screw the other team over so you can say, I GOT YOU.

Theory: Please don't go for theory unless it is the only thing that you can run. If I can think of something else that you could run that links reasonably well, I will not vote for theory arguments. So, take your best guess about the arguments you run.

Don't reduce these things that I am saying down to a belief that I cannot think critically. That is not the case. Everyone has their things that click with them, and some of the things that don't click with me are metatheory issues with debate and kritikal arguments. I value communication over arguments in most cases, but you have to have evidence to back up your points to me. Preparation is key for tournaments. Use the wiki to prepare for your opponents. Don't use a lack of preparation as an excuse for not having a link for an argument. There is always options for you to take. This is the beauty of debate.

If you have any specific questions, ask me in round.
  