
  Hi there! My name is Fernanda Scalera and I generally judge on the Florida Gulf Coast local circuit. I do not have an exact number on the amount of LD rounds I have judged this year, but this will be the first time I judge the Jan/Feb topic, therefore, explain everything to me as if I have no prior knowledge (even if I do). 

I am a traditional/lay judge.

I generally discourage spreading, as I like to feel as if points were thoroughly addressed and easy to learn from. If you are going to spread, you must have a good reason for it, and speak clearly, annunciate, and do not simply spit words with your face glued to your cards or laptop. I will only flow debate if it was spoken at a reasonable pace, if you spread, I most likely will not flow (or flow well at the least) so keep that in mind. If one opponent spreads and the other does not, it will most likely not fair well for the spreader. If it cannot understand you, I will drop my pen, if I have to do this more than three times (even once and I will be upset) you can pretty much assure you will be docked significantly for manners and argumentation. 

I will judge content and focus, especially the connection between the two and your established values, over charisma. However, speaking clearly and eloquently does matter. 
The debate environment must be respectful at all times, you should treat your opponent and the judge with the same respect you would like to receive, always use manners and be polite, or else the round simply is not fun.

Be careful running anything progressive, running a K probably won't go well, the same caution should go to counterplans, theory or topicality, don't try and pull a fast one on your opponent or think that running such will catch them off guard and hope that you win the round. This is not to say you shouldn't or can't run them, however caution is your friend. A progressive argument should add to the debate, but make sure it adds a lot. 
The diversity of opinions is welcomed, if you wish to run an unconventional argument, I will listen, but you should be able to substantiate it. I do not usually call for evidence, but I will keep note of sources in round so speak names and titles of sources clearly.  


Values and Impacts: 
If you do not present to me any viable impacts or values, keep the following in mind:
I value life, abstaining from war, and equality over economic gain/loss or "risk of changing the status quo". 
I will not vote for an argument based on any personal bias, but I will generally side with the argument that proves it will positively effect the largest amount of people. 

Keep your moral and ethical complexes on the simple side, if you overcomplicate it, I may get bored and stop listening. 

To me, a conclusion is vital, make it clear why YOU won the round, and don't just spur out "x point was dropped", I'll be the judge of that. 
As always, have fun!
  