
  Gabe Schonfeld

Can't Judge: Lexington (MA), Thomas Jefferson High School (VA)

Background: I debated 4 years (2004-2008) for Lexington High School, in the northeast mostly, with a few other bid tournaments thrown in. I earned one bid to the TOC my senior year. I've judged occasionally since graduating high school. I'm currently a senior at Northwestern University, studying History.

FULL DISCLOSURE: It has been a while since i've judged serious competition. While I would love to be super caught-up on the latest debate trends and fashions, I'm probably at least somewhat behind the times. When in doubt, assume something needs more explanation.

I consider myself open to a panoply of styles and strategies, subject to a two constraints:

1. Your ability to formulate your ideas clearly.

Positions: I am fine with complex positions. I am fine with critical positions, or ones that draw on any number of obscure (or not obscure) philosophical traditions. Seriously, run anything you want in front of me. That said, recognize that THE BURDEN FALLS ON YOU to clearly articulate your position. I consider myself a pretty smart guy, but as I will likely not be familiar with the ins and outs of whatever you're running, please be sure to make sure your position is clearly and fully explained.

Theory: I view theory as an acceptable remedy for egregious in-round abuse. Absent such abuse, I would REALLY rather not hear theory. Also, be aware that my (always tenuous) grasp on the intricacies of debate theory has degraded since high school. So, if you want to run theory, keep it kindergarten-level, or don't be surprised when I have trouble following you.

2. Your ability to communicate those ideas to me in a manner I can comprehend.

Speed: Speed is fine so long as I can flow it. I can flow up to a pretty brisk clip, but nothing totally crazy, and will look flustered and confused when you exceed my abilities. If I feel you're being unclear, I will yell CLEAR. Bear in mind I'm pretty out of practice.

Calling for Cards: If the meaning/interpretation/wording of a card becomes an issue in the round, I'll call for it. Don't expect this to substitute for speaking at a rate and level of clarity I can understand.

If you have any questions I would be happy to discuss them with you before or after rounds. If you're trying to figure out how to pref me, feel free to email me at g s c h o n f e l d AT g m a i l . c o m
  