
  This is a quick philosophy for the purposes of New Trier which will be updated to be more in depth later so, ask questions.

Reading preferences: i can handle speed but make sure when you are doing analytics, t and theory, you go a bit slower than when you read cards so i can properly flow it.

I debated for 4 years for Homewood Flossmoor.

I will vote on anything no matter how dumb I think the argument is like, T causes genocide.

Kritiks-
I am a fan of the K, ran it a lot when I debated. In order to win the K, I need to have a solid story. Explain the link story well and what exactly the alternative does. I realize that being shifty and vague is fun on the negative but it is a pain in the ass for the judge at the end of the round when I don't exactly know whats going on. For the aff, have a diverse section of arguments. Please don't let your answers be JUST realism and framework.

Counterplans-
Just win that you solve and why the perm won't work, it is pretty self explanatory. For states theory, i will usually err neg just because states is a pretty generic counterplan but will also vote aff on the theory flow, it just depends on how the round goes.

Disads-
i don't like people perming politics or other disads. If it isn't dropped, i will err to the side of the neg if it is close because i think that it takes too much ground away.

T-
feel free to go for it. I need to know a specific story whether its in or potential abuse. Impact your standards so i can properly evaluate the standards portion of the flow. I don't have a default to reasonability or competing interps but will usually err on the side of competing interps. Also, for a potential abuse story dont say you couldnt run your super cool disad because it probably doesn't exist and if it does, run it to prove abuse, it is pretty simple.

theory-
Don't be afraid to go for theory, just make sure to impact the standards. I think that multiple condo positions are fine but will still vote aff on condo.

Go for anything. Even weird impact turns, i like weird impact turns and things like that. I will listen to anything so, just have fun with it and i will provide as helpful a kritik as possible after the round.
  