
  I was a varsity policy and public forum debater in high school, class of 2010, and did not participate in debate in college at Northwestern, class of 2014. Please enunciate your tags very clearly, I will not speak up if I cannot understand you (unless it's really bad). What I don't understand will not be flowed and you should be able to see if I am flowing or not. 

I believe strongly in the affirmative burden and thus find myself somewhat neg biased. I will vote on dropped arguments if told to do so, and I prefer not to be writing my ballots in constructive speeches. I prefer clean debates with no personal or otherwise derogatory remarks. I hate when debaters attempt to empathize with me through non verbal actions in rounds and this will be reflected in speaker points. I am from Minnesota where everyone is nicer and want a nice, cordial debate. 

I am a very open judge and am open to hearing any argument, as long as it is well done and fully articulated (and I can understand it). I need strong calculus in the rebuttals, especially by the affirmative. I want to be told how and why I should vote and do not like to do that evaluative work post round. I believe debate is mainly about persuasion and want to be persuaded in round. I also do not like the idea of skilled judges and prefer arguments that are more universally understandable, acknowledging that this is not always the case. I am also open to performance rounds. I am open to critical affirmatives, and I think the alternative needs to be practical and well articulated.

If both teams agree to tag team cross-x I allow it, if it is not unanimous I won't. I strongly prefer all cross-x participants to be looking at me (and not each other) during cross-x. 

I like to see 1AC extensions, I often find that evidence strong and under utilized by the affirmative throughout the round. I usually weigh on-case less strongly as off-case in my decisions unless I am persuaded by the affirmative otherwise. 

TL;DR I am slightly neg biased and believe strongly in the affirmative burden. I also tend to lean off-case. I will vote on arguments if I am persuaded to no matter how ludicrous. Please be Minnesota nice.
  