
  Nick J. Sciullo, Judging Philosophy

Explanation and analysis over random card reading. I’m open to hearing any arguments and not disinclined to vote on any argument. If your strategy is politics DAs and Counter Plan theory—read ‘em. If you love reading Spivak, Foucault, and Derrida—read ‘em. I thought about writing my philosophy for every conceivable argument, but that would probably lead folks to think I had a strong preference for or against arguments which really is not the case. All critics come into rounds with experience in different areas just as debaters come into rounds with different majors. It’s your job to convince me, not my job to tell you what I want to be convinced on. I am ultimately a Kritik-oriented debater and coach. I prefer to hear these rounds and am probably more qualified to judge these rounds. I love performance, memory politics, poststructuralism, identity politics, and feminism particularly.

Debate is subjective, but I try to come into each round with as open a mind as possible. That being said, I have a strong background in critical theory, critical race theory, feminism, and rhetorical theory, but that does not predispose me to vote for poorly constructed arguments that claim to engage those ideas. Because I’m more involved (reading and writing) in those areas, I probably am a better critic in those rounds. Again, not because I have a preference for those areas, but because that’s where a lot of my intellectual energy has gone over the years. BUT, I also work in DC Metro Area politics, so I’m no stranger to the inner workings of the political process. I usually do not vote for spec arguments.  

Your ultimate goal should be to convince me why you win the round. That can come about using not only many different arguments, but also many paradigms. I value your performative consistency and gender neutral language. Debate is an open canvas upon which debaters can construct communities of action. The ballot can be a tool, but before you assume I’ll vote on something, you need to explain why your paradigm makes sense in the round. If you believe my ballot sends a message, explain why I should feel the same way. If you feel like we are policymakers, then explain why my position as critic upholds sound policy decision-making. Inspire me to take action with you. 

I prefer not to call for cards after the round, but if you feel I must, then provide some darn good reasons. Explain why your evidence is better. What are the qualifications of your author? The warrants behind her arguments? The inconsistencies of the other team’s authors? I have a good flow, but I’m not perfect. It’s very important to me to flow things in the appropriate place and make sure that I can follow arguments from start to finish. I value debaters who are organized. I usually don’t flow CX, but if I hear something that sounds particularly relevant to the resolution of the round, I’ll jot it down. Don’t read my non-verbals because debaters have told me they are not always consistent and I don’t want that to limit you. 

Speed does not matter, but speed should not be a substitute for persuasion. Sometimes speed gets valued over persuasion, and that’s not helpful for anyone. It’s great that you read 7 internal links, but how do they matter to the round and why are they better than your opponent’s answers. 

Have fun, be humorous, don’t take yourself too seriously. 

A note on paperless debate: I'm not sold yet on the all-mighty and wonderful paperless debate systems. I've seen it go wrong more than go greatly in most rounds across the board. I will be upset if you look like you are prepping when you are suppossedly jumping speeches. I have seen this happen before and I will keep prep time running. Try to keep your paperless interactions as unobtrusive as possible. We all have to eat lunch, prep for the next round, etc. and no one likes to be behind because paperless debate has added minutes to the round.
 
Other debate information…

Coaching Experience: Assistant Coach, United States Naval Academy (09-present); Director of Debate, T.C. Williams HS [VA] (07-present), West Virginia University, Midlothian HS [VA])

Debate Experience (all policy): Middle School, Tallwood High School [Virginia Beach, VA], University of Richmond

I received my bachelor’s degree from the University of Richmond and my law degree from West Virginia University…
  