
  Email: evanscribner1 at gmail dot com. Feel free to email me with any questions.

UPDATE Nov 2014- I am unfamiliar with the topic this year-keep this in mind for the T debate or for using acronyms.

I evaluate the debate as the 2NR vs the 2AR and look backwards as necessary. This means that I strongly buy into the 'a dropped argument is a true argument' idea. I will call for evidence if I feel I have to but if I have to call for a lot of evidence speaker points will be affected.
I debated for Nashua in High School and now I judge for them.

I will try to be tab to the best of my ability, but I think that being unbiased is impossible, so the rest of this page will list some of my biases.

There are very few arguments I won’t listen to. Don’t be racist, sexist, homophobic, etc and you should be good. I think that teams that say or do things that are oppressive or bigoted do deserve to lose the round.

I will vote as a logical policy maker looking for the option with the lowest body count unless you tell me to do otherwise during the round.

I debated the K and performed a lot in high school, but that doesn’t mean you should read K’s in front of me. You should read arguments that you are able to debate well, not ones you think the judge will like.

Speaker Points
27.5 is average, do not expect a 30.
Good clash and evidence comparison are key. The less work you make me do in terms of weighing impacts the better

CX
I flow CX, and it’s binding. Open CX is totally fine. CX affects your speaker points. Don't be a jerk.

Thoughts on specific arguments:

T: If you’re going for T, it should be your whole 2NR. You need to convince me that the other team is actually untopical and explain why this means you should win the debate. Some standards are really stupid. Reasonability is persuasive to me.

CP/DA: Good, comparative impact calc that references your evidence will win you the round.

K: Framework is really, really important for both teams. If you lose the framework flow you will lose the debate. I think that K debaters very often neglect the alternative debate. Explaining how the alternative works will really help you.

Performance/Unconventional Affs: No issues with this. Interact with the other team. i will drop you on framework in a second if you lose the framework debate.

Theory: It’s gonna be hard to convince me theory is a voter, but I’ll certainly ignore the violating argument if you win the theory flow

Have fun, making me laugh will probably increase your speaks
  