
  Hey guys, this is what you need to know to get my ballot
I can flow some speed, but if I miss something that’s on you. If you are going to go fast, you need to make sure you enunciate as much as you can are are not monotonousI am not going to discriminate against any argument, but if you are going to run anything technical you need to fully explain the argument and not assume I understand anythingI don’t like K’s or Theory, run them at your own risk. I have no problem with counter-plans though, but it needs to be a full plan. An advocacy is not the equivalent of a counter-plan because a counter-plan has full text, solvency, etc.Weigh the round. Give voting issues. Give me a reason to vote for you that is evident on the flowDo not say, "My opponent has not responded to my contention" if they have responded to that contention. I'm flowing, I'll know if you're trying to confuse me. Doing this will cost speaker pointsDo not drop arguments or refutations without at the very least acknowledging their existenceIn LD debate, I don’t just vote off of framework or contentions. I think they have equal importance, and one alone will not win the round. A case should have a framework that is upheld by strong contentions. In order to win you must win the framework debate, but you can’t win the framework debate without strong contentions. It is a fair strategy to concede to your opponent’s framework and argue why you actually uphold it thoughFor me, speaker points start a base of 27 points. You only go lower if you are disrespectful to me or more importantly your opponent. 27 for me is about average, 28 is good, 29 is very good, 30 is outstanding. What constitutes disrespect is to my discretion, but common things to avoid are: Taunting, Laughing in round, making faces, calling the opposition stupid, implying the opposition is stupid, etc.I keep time of the round. You guys can keep time too, in fact I encourage you to keep your own time. But I keep time so I know when to stop listening and to stop flowing. Just because I do not stop you from talking once you’ve gone over doesn’t mean any of it matters. I actually will flow what you say, but just so I know to ignore itI would love to see a Performance Aff. If you’re already out of the running to break or are undefeated going into the final prelim round and want to do one, you have my full endorsement. Speaker Points will be high. And to the opposing debater, that does not mean they’re going to win automatically. It will still be fair
If you have any other specific questions, feel free to ask before the round begins

*Also ignore the previous versions of this Judge Philosophy if you can get to them. That is from years ago and most of it crap from someone who thought they knew a lot more than they did. Everything in this post is what you need to know
  