
  I wear my heart on my face. #sorrynotsorry
ELYSIA SEGAL
Former circuit competitor: Lake Highland Prep / NYU
Assistant Coach for Collegiate School (NY) & previously Harrison High School (NY)



(HARRISON?!?!! omfg DANNY DEBOIS!!! squee!!!!1!1shift+1)
...yeah. that's the one. (hi DanDan i miss you!)




STYLE:
I generally consider myself a "circuity traditional" judge. (HAHA, WTF IS THAT, RIGHT?!)
I don't like theory and won't flow your theory unless it's blatantly obvious that your opponent is being extremely abusive (it HAS happened though, so use your best judgement). Theory for theory's sake is really obnoxious to me — please just debate the resolution, not the idea behind debate itself or why the resolution makes you cranky. Come on, it's not fair to your opponent who actually did the work to advocate something. Drop that shiz or I'll likely drop your face.Bostrom/Extinction args: Be reasonable. You gotta link to extinction REALLY convincingly to win this one from me. So many people think Bostrom is an easy, instant win and will bend over backwards to find a way to wipe out humanity when someone sneezes. Don't do that. Use logic. If you think it's a stretch, I DEFINITELY will.Likewise, I will not vote on presumption and all that time/strat skew mumbo jumbo unless I have absolutely nothing else to vote on. Don't waste your time, I'll just go ahead and presume you didn't read this. (FAIL)My role of the ballot is simply to decide who wins the round that I'm watching, nothing more. Don't flatter yourself — let's be honest, whatever I decide won't suddenly represent a luminous torch for a cause or suddenly sway congress to make some gigantic decision. They can barely even do that on their own.I love really unique and compelling non-stock substance arguments on both sides — back it up, make it relevant, link it to your framework and use cards. I have a strong science background (I won 1st place at the INTEL International Science & Engineering Fair *) so cards of merit and value actually hold a lot of weight in my eyes. The more recent, reputable and empirically sound your card is, the better. Methodology? Awesome. That all should really be a no-brainer but the more I judge the more I see it making a difference, especially when your whole turn is based on a card war. I'll take a cited source over "common sense" any day.Please SIGNPOST and when you use your awesomely recent and super statistic-filled card remind me (briefly) what AuthorDude said and why it's better than your opponent's argument. Duh.
"oral."
SPEED: Sure!
 I apparently have mutant ears and can understand and flow speed rather well, but please be CLEAR. Some of the fastest talkers are the most clear, and it really boils down to practice, enunciation, and (when you're REALLY good) inflection and pacing. Slow down for important points like authors, tags, and things vital to my flow. I will say "CLEAR" twice, and then I'll just be annoyed and start knocking speaks. All that being said, if you aren't good at spreading, I'd much rather actually hear and understand your arguments than be attacked by a wall of sound. I will NEVER count it against someone if they aren't good at it or have a condition that limits them, but, again, I will DEFINITELY not consider your superfluous arguments if you try to spread someone out JUST to intimidate them. Don't be douchey.


SPEAKS:
I rank my speaker points from 25-30 on fluency, charisma, presentational skills, confidence, clarity, competency, etc (basically everything but arguments). A ranking of 25 is reserved for only the most heinously rude or incredibly unprepared of individuals. I have thankfully only given a few of those, and generally stay more in the 27-29 range, with 30s given to people who really blow me away (or use Laz — inside joke). I tend to be a pretty lenient point fairy in general, though.

OTHERWISE...
I don't care if you stand, sit, lie down or flow on your arm. I'm super laid back — JUST BE YOURSELF AND HAVE FUN!
Also I won't deduct prep time for flashing your case to an opponent or road-mapping. (ugh, who DOES that?!)
Flash drives: please try to have a flash drive if you need it, but I generally carry an extra one so feel free to ask to borrow it.

PS: I may make faces as I'm listening to you, but if my face ever looks like this during the round I can't understand you.
Please adjust accordingly.

...it happens.

* PERSONAL SIDE NOTE RE: SCIENCE FAIR: Yes yes, the rumors are true. While science fair is obviously not why I'm here, don't be shy! If your school participates and you have any questions or want advice (or even if you're just curious) feel free to ask. Believe it or not I'm a real person outside of debate. It was a great experience and I give you mad props for doing both activities — debate actually gives you wonderful presentational skills that, honestly, are half the battle when it comes to competing in that arena. Go you!
  