
  Nicole Serrano
Name = Nicole Serrano
Affiliation = Dallas Urban Debate Alliance
School Strikes = Lexington, Nicolet, Hanover, MBA
CXphilosophy =

This judge philosophy likely needs to be updated in many ways, but for short term, I want to update my paperless thoughts. My beliefs will model identically to what we agreed upon at Dartmouth noted here - I would add to those rules that I highly recommend that students VERBALLY mark cards that are read electronically.


Last thing that may be useful to know is that I flow cx - more like take notes. I find it helps me keep my mind in the game, but as a result, please use it for useful questions.


I think a judge's role is to decide the round as much as possible upon
the arguments presented in the round. I don't believe that anyone is
totally impartial, but I will try to be as much as possible. Generally, I
use conventions such as flowing, arguments not answered are considered
"true," and a structure of cause-and-effect. I am willing to engage you
in another form of debating provided you explain to me what my role is,
and why it is superior to the form of debating in which the other team
would like to engage me.
Here is a list of things you should and should not do in front of me to
win my ballot and/or get good speaker points
- DO speak clearly, enunciate, and in a flowable manner. I will
indicate to you verbally and non-verbally if I cannot understand what you are
saying. I expect to be able to understand the text of the cards as much
as I do
the tags.
- DO mark your cards as you are reading them. I believe that it is
important to indicate what parts of cards you read as you go. It may be an
innocent mistake, but it is difficult for the other team to prepare if
they have
to wait all of cross-x for you to mark your cards
- DO explain your arguments. For kritiks, the links and the impact are
important, clearly, but often teams fail to explain their alternative
and what that means I am voting for. For all arguments, explain the
impact and the implication to your arguments in relation to other arguments
in the round.
- DO be polite and respectful of the other team. Nothing will lose you
speaker points faster than insulting the other team, your partner or
any person or group that may not be present. I appreciate debates that
are emotionally charged and are self-reflective, so please feel free to
run those arguments. I simply believe that it is possible to debate from
the heart without throwing daggers at another person, so please be
respectful.
- DO NOT steal prep time. I promise I will give comments at the end of
the round, not just to explain my decision, but in some way to help you
either understand the argument better, give you an idea how to pick up
my ballot in the future, and hopefully improve your understanding
and/or skill of debate. I think the most important role of the judge is not
to decide the round, but rather to provide constructive feedback to the
debaters. In exchange, please have the round run on a timely manner so
I can have enough time to provide you with comments, not push the
tournament behind, and coach.
- DO NOT "steal" your partner's cross-x. Open cross-x is fine, but if
one person on a team asks and answers all the questions, it is unlikely
that the non-participator will receive high speaker points. This does
not mean you shouldb e shy about answering or asking a question. Its
just that someone who never answers or asks a question is unlikely to get
many points. And someone who doesn't let their partner get a word in
edgewise, unlikely to get a 30 no matter how good they are.
Other than that, debate your best and have fun! Nothing makes me feel
more like giving out a LOT of speaker points than a debate where all
four debaters are nice and fun and whom create a fun atmosphere of which
to be a part. If you have any specific questions, please feel free to
ask.
  