
  Mena Shah

Background
 
I am the mother of a high school junior who does competitive National Circuit style LD; this will be my third year judging speech and debate. I've judged at local tournaments as well as large invitationals like Cal and Stanford, and I mostly judge Congress, speech events, and Public Forum.

Stylistic and Argumentative Preferences
 
First off, I would be classified as a "citizen" or "lay" judge; however all of your preconceived, extreme notions about a lay judges disadvantages don't necessarily apply; I am unbiased in round and will be respectful and open to all debaters, and I hope you do the same in return. While this may be so, please realize that I don't understand hardcore Nat Circuit arguments and I like a slow and eloquent speaker. So in that regard debate how you would around any other lay judge. When in round, the Claim, Warrant, Impact structure must be followed. I need to know why things matter. Weigh arguments a lot, and don't drop arguments. DON'T EVEN TRY TO LIE. I live and breathe CNN and the New York Times, and while your arguments may not be from these sources, I can certainly tell if an argument is ridiculous. When in LD or Policy, and using SITHS or V/VC, I like a one sentence review of each of these terms as you go through them. So like, "my value, meaning *definition of a value*, is Justice". I love Cross examination and crossfire, so have fun with it. Ask killer questions, and have some good clash.

Speaking Preferences
 Cool, calm, collected. Agitated debaters make me nervous, so have a nice, clean round and you will be rewarded, if not with the W at least good speaks.Speak slowly, or I won't understand you. Simple as that. I don't say "clear" or drop my pen, I just get really confused. You might not be able to tell that. So don't take a risk. I'm sure you all know the deal.SIGNPOST TO THE MAXIMUM. I do a semi-decent flow, but I really need those signposts. I can't follow you if you aren't doing that. Specifically say, "Contention 1" or "Singer explains". This is for your benefit, as the vote might not be the right one if you aren't signposting and I don't get everything down.Civility between debaters. Like I said before, I love clean rounds. The beauty of debate, in my opinion, is the mutual respect of debaters and the educational opportunities they give each other. I will award you with great speaks, and punish with bad ones.
If there is anything I haven't clarified here, ask me before the round starts PLEASE. Or, just deal with the situation as you would with a typical lay parent. Don't argue my RFD or I knock down speaks. What's done is done. Good luck, and you all are awesome!
  