
  Johns Creek High School '14

I'll make this quick and easy:

Transportation infrastructure topic - This topic is extremely vague so I find affs to be all over the place, meaning I will give some protection to the neg on T but that doesn't mean I have a bis for the neg. Debate it well, just like everything else. If you aren't clear on T, framework, or theory, I'll try to flow but if I honestly can't understand you, I'm not going to guess at what you said. It just won't be on my flow and won't be a part of my decision-- so bottom line, just be clear. I'm also not really in love with this topic so I spent almost the entire year with a fairly strong kritikal strategy. And I do love K's, so be as left as you want as long as you can explain it well to me and it's not a link of omission. If it comes down to framework/theory/T, I usually think education is more important than fairness, but again, I'm judging solely off of what you say, so if you're clearly winning the debate on fairness, I'll definitely vote for you. That's my stance on K's, but don't let that scare you because I also spent a majority of my debate career debating politics and cheap counterplans as well as running Next Gen as one of my affs. I hardly read K's until this year. 
I do think CP+DA is a far more solid strategy than DA vs case. 

So essentially, do what you want. I'll listen to whatever you have to say. And remember, just because I debated a lot of kritikal stuff doesn't mean I don't love policy. 

I also try my best to do the least amount of work for you as possible in the debate, because I believe that this activity is solely based on how well you make it.
'm not going to assume that because you said . This means I'm not going to be doing work for you after the round is over. All the work should be done in the round for me.

So I guess all that comes down to is
1. Be clear
2. Run whatever your heart desires as long as it's smart. I don't want to vote down another team because you won something silly. You should be winning the debate, not having the other team lose. There's a difference.
3. Just because I run the K a lot, don't assume I'm not familiar with the strict policy side of debate. 



HAVE FUN! I really love this activity and I like to see others enjoy themselves as well.

shout out to chelsea thorpe!

P.S. please don't read death good....
  