
  Feel free to debate whatever you are most comfortable debating. I will do my best to evaluate all arguments fairly.

Focus on substantive impact calculus. The team that makes the most detailed and comparative impact calculus will probably win and avoid my intervention.

Specificity of link arguments and thorough analysis and explanation of evidence is crucial.

A successful CX can accomplish more than a speech.

I don’t consider an argument dropped if it’s been implicitly answered elsewhere.

Disads/CP’s - I tend to view things in an offense/defense framework, but this has its limit. If the link is really contrived, then strong, analytical, defensive arguments can defeat the DA/CP. Don’t just explain why your impact outweighs on, say, magnitude, but also why magnitude is more important than probability. Turns case arguments make things easier. Quality of evidence is more important than quantity

K’s – Don’t assume I’m well-versed in your particular author and know what you’re talking about. Be very clear in the thesis of your argument early on, but avoid long overviews in the constructive speeches when arguments would be better served on the line by line. Negatives should spend a substantial amount of time making nuanced and smart link arguments that reference 1AC evidence. Affirmatives should watch out for case turns and alternative solves case arguments. Permutations should have net benefits. I’m down for a generic impact turn/realism/framework debate. Don’t use too many buzzwords.

Topicality – I enjoy a good T debate. My threshold for generic T-violations is only slightly higher than a specific violation. Competing interpretations and predictable limits are important, but an affirmative that argues that their interpretation provides reasonable limits and negative ground can win. I’m fine with K’s of T, but I’m more likely to be persuaded if the K incorporates the aff.

Theory – Not my preference. “Reject the argument, not the team” is pretty persuasive to me. By all means, go for theory if you feel pushed into it, but speak a little slower and be technical.

Be relatively respectful, speak clearly, and keep it cool.
  