
  Assistant Coach, Lake Braddock SS
NCFL Champion '12

My background is in traditional LD, but I am open to and enjoy judging all styles of debate. So, I don't have preferences, but I do have limitations.

You're free to run any kind of argument, and there is nothing I won't vote on, but you run progressive arguments at some risk. If you plan to run these kinds of arguments (i.e., theory, counterplans, etc.), make sure you can adequately explain what the argument is, how it functions in the round, and how I evaluate it. I am perfectly capable of understanding and evaluating these arguments, but you must assume that I won't immediately know what you're talking about. Hint: If I am nodding as I'm flowing, chances are good I understand what you're talking about. If I am making a confused face at you, it's likely you need to do some more explaining. Please feel free to ask me specific questions before the round. You may even try to gauge how much I know/understand about a specific type of argument; I won't be insulted. 

Speed is not a problem, but you MUST slow down for tags and authors. If you don't, I will be very confused when you try to signpost later and will spend time searching on my flow instead of listening to you. I will yell "slow" or "clear" if necessary.

I think my speaks are generally very high. I start speaker points at a 27 and go up or down from there. 25/26 means you have something significant to work on; 28/29 means you did something that impressed me. A 30 means you impressed me significantly; this is not that hard to do. Things I consider when assigning speaker points:
1. Speaking style - What this means will differ depending on the debater's style. Slower, more traditional debaters will be rewarded for being engaging speakers. Faster, more progressive debaters will be rewarded for clarity and the like.
2. Strategy - I reward speeches with clear strategy. I will also reward debaters who utilize less obvious strategies.
3. Organization - I must be able to follow your speech. This requires explicit signposting.
4. "Rudeness" - I think I have a very high tolerance for rudeness. I know the days are long and that you are under a lot of stress, so I will tend to give you the benefit of the doubt and assume that you're just tired. However, I will dock speaks if you insult your opponent, insult your opponent's argument(s) (saying an argument is ridiculous is okay, saying it's stupid and/or retarded is not), intentionally obfuscate the round for an opponent who is less experienced or knowledgable, or refuse to answer questions in cross-ex.
5. Cross-Ex - I like it when debaters actually use cross-ex to a strategic advantage. However, if you don't understand something, please ask your opponent to clarify.

I expect debaters who speak fast to make their speeches available in some form to their opponents and all debaters to make their evidence available. If you are speaking off a laptop, please be prepared to give up your laptop to your opponent during her prep time and her next speech if giving her your speech on a flash drive is not possible.

At the end of the round, I will find the easiest argument(s) to vote off of. These will be the arguments that I am most confident I can fairly evaluate. I will not vote off of something I don't understand. I will call for cards if necessary. Unless the tournament prohibits it, I will always disclose my decision and why I voted that way and will disclose speaker points if you ask. As long as time permits, you may ask me what I thought about specific arguments on the flow and I will try to explain why I did or did not vote off them. If time does not permit, find me after the round and I will be happy to sit down with you and answer those questions.
  