
  I participated in Policy debate for two years at Newark Tech and Science Park. I don't debate anymore but I have judged for LD for two years.

Presumption
I listen to both teams, I have no pre-judgement before the round begins.

Speed
BE VERY VERY VERY CLEAR !!! If you can spread, by all means, go right ahead. However, you should not replace clarity with speed. Slow down on Tags and Warrants. If you are doing a cross analysis, make sure you are stating the tag and warrant of the evidence you are referring to. Please try and refrain from sounding like a motor boat.
Naturally, I will yell clear or louder if I can't understand because of the speed volume, however, I am not your coach so I will probably only tell you twice.
But, don't spread critical arguments or framework.
I won't flow arguments I can't hear or understand.

Evidence
Do not read evidence out of context. If something seems fishy to me, I will ask for evidence. If it is out of context, especially if you were winning off that evidence, you will lose the ballot. Im not usually big on the whole cite debate, but if a debater really feels like the evidence is being misused, just refer to it in your speech, tell me why I should care, and I'll look at it. Please, don't use your whole rebuttal talking about citations, making a big deal out of one simple mistake can lose you speaker points. There are better arguments to go for.

Cross Examination
CX is definitely binding. If you wouldn't say it during your speech, don't say it during cross-ex. I don't flow cross examinations however they help me with my flow. Make cross examinations useful in either clarifying arguments or a stepping stone another argument. However, complete disrespect for the opposing team is NOT tolerated at all. I don't care if you are winning every argument and then some, you will have very low speaks if you start "bullying" the other team.

Critical/Weird Arguments
I am open-minded person. I will vote on it if it makes sense. If you are presenting an argument that you know you just created or not alot of people know, you had better explain it to the best you can. Don't run weird arguments as a time suck, I just think thats a waste of brain energy and time. 

Theory
I reject the argument not the debater. Fairness arguments can go either way. If you tell me everyone will quit debate, it doesn't mean anything, because obviously you are still debating. If you want me to vote on theory tell me how it works and why i should evaluate it. 

Delivery
Be persuasive and smart about your arguments. I especially like link and impact calculations. Use your cross analysis intelligently to create a story for me. The better your story, the happier your audience. 
Thanks :)
  