
  About Me
I did policy debate for 4 years at Whitney M Young Magney High School in Chicago from 2009-2013. I currently attend Loyola University Chicago and do Parliamentary Debate. I worked at the Chicago Debate Summer Institute on the oceans topic. 
ParadigmWhile I was at Whitney Young, I debated both locally at Chicago Debate League tournments and at national circuit tournaments. I am familiar with general debate conventions. I would like to think (and try my best to achieve) that I am unbiased and will generally vote on any well articulated argument made in the round. I know that isn't a very satisfying answer so I'll discuss some of my preconceived notions of what debate should look like on this page. Always feel free to prove me wrong; debate is an evolving activity and I would like to think that I am not opposed to changing as the activity changes. I genuinely enjoyed policy debate in high school and want it to be an inclusive, fun, and educational activity.
Ks
I am familiar with most of the popular ks (capitalism, security, heidegger, etc). While I have some basic understanding of philosophy and have run and debated against most Ks, I am not well-versed in all of the literature. Try not to be too technical if it isn't necessary. For example, if debaters don't explain to me what the "hyperreal" is and how it functions in regards to the affirmative plan I am less likely to vote on the Baudrillard K. I also expect teams that run Ks to understand the arguments that they are making. It is really frustrating to watch an unorganized and incoherent K debate. Do not read Ks that have weak links, or do not engage the plan.
Non-Traditional/Non-Topical Debate
I have very little experience judging non traditional teams. I know that it is becoming more and more common within the debate community. Insofar as I have littler experience with these kinds of arguments I would suggest that teams spend more time explaining your arguments.
TopicalityI am fine with it. In depth topicality debates can be interesting. I'm not inclined to vote on potential abuse unless given a very compelling reason. TheoryI will listen to all theoretical objections raised during the round, however I am more inclined to reject the argument and not the team. You probably won't win on potential abuse. But if it's dropped I'll vote on it.
 OtherJudge intervention is a bad thing. Don't force me to have to intervene by doing impact calculous and comparative analysis in the rebuttals. I stop prep time when the flash drive has been ejected from the computer. Don't steal prep.Clarity over speed. I feel like this is something everyone has been told, but not everyone has internalized. Don't try to speak faster than you are able to.If I don't understand what you are saying, then i'm not flowing it. Being competitive is not a justification for being rude, racist, sexist, homophobic or anything of that nature. I will dock speaker points for this kind of behavior. Treat everyone in the round with respect; We are all sacrificing our weekends to be at the tournament and want to have a good time.

If you have any other questions feel free to ask me in round or you can email me at hibasheikh95@gmail.com
 

  