
  ~ Feel free to ask any additional questions about what is or isn’t cool before the round. ~

Background
Louisiana School for Math, Science, and the Arts ‘16
Columbia Engineering ‘20

I debated in LD for six years on the Louisiana circuit. I’m also a fan of congress & extemp, and went to NSDA nationals for two years in each of those events, if that experience means anything to you.

General
I keep a rigorous flow and am open to evaluating pretty much anything that isn’t obviously offensive. I was generally a more traditional LD’er (thanks to the Louisiana circuit), but I started exploring more progressive positions toward the end of my career, and I’m certainly open to types of argumentation I might not be the most familiar with. In general, if you stick to a claim / warrant / impact structure and everything is easy to follow, I’ll evaluate it.

Clash is important.

Signpost, signpost, signpost. Connect the dots for me. Tell me why I’m voting the way I’m voting—the usual.

Decorum
Sit / stand / make tasteful jokes / do whatever. Flex prep is cool with me but confirm your opponent is fine with it before the round. Anything else, just ask.

Speed
Generally chill with spreading, but probably knock it down a couple notches from your top speed so I can flow you completely. Slow down for tags and authors and anything else you feel to be short and important. Clarity > speed—I’ll shout clear/slow as necessary and look at you disapprovingly until you are coherent.

Speaker Points
I’ll be as generous as possible.
30—flawless performance.
28-28.5+ means I think you should probably break.
27-27.5 is pretty average.
26 likely reflects some larger mistakes.
Below 26 you were blatantly offensive or otherwise did something very, very wrong.

Theory / Kritiks
Gonna be real: I’m not that well-read on theory. This does not mean you shouldn’t run it, just keep in mind you might have to be a little more thorough in your explanation. Be very explicit with your impacts here.

The same goes for Ks. I’m a little more familiar with some of the more common K lit, but be a little more explicit with your explanation and impacts than you might be with more traditional positions.
  