
  Short Version
Do what you love *
Love what you do
Be who you are
Are who you love
Never think, never cry
Be yourself
Love the roses
The rows of roses lvoe you
Remember the roses that they love you
And, if all else fails,
Just know
That I love you

*Within the confines of this philosophy

Medium Version
The little nose knows
Because the little nose grows
Smell me out
Remember who we know
For that is the know of the knoes


Long version
I have decided to copy seth gannon’s philosophy's format

Thoughts about debate, from those which I most support to those which I most oppose:
[100% agree]
It is the judge’s job to judge people
Clarity is cool
Speed = words per hour 
Should is the past tense of shall
FSPEC
The 1nr is a constructive, which means no new arguments. Save it for the 1ar. 
Presumption is towards whoever is on the left
A tropical plan is good
It’s called the p.t.x. DisAD
It’s called the nuk WAR DisAD
People are rocks
Speaker points are—like this list—mostly arbitrary
Theory is a reason to reject the theory argument but nothing else
Disads should be intrinsic 
Sink-or-swim (the concept)
I should flow [50-50 agree]
Debaters should flow
Text competition 
ASPEC
Most impacts are true
Conditionality
Berube votes neg
Rock Genocide is a bad thing
It’s called the EXTinction DisAD
Jack Mcgougan (the idea)
In means within
OSPEC
Functional comp
Animals are people (I just don’t get this anthroposomething K)
There is always a risk
Unconditionality
Debaters use too much jargon 
[1% agree [there’s always a risk!]]

Slightly shorter but still larger than medium version 
Everything is up for debate before the round except for these rules:
1. The better debater always wins.2. Winks determine speaker points.3. Flowing is arbitrary.4. Racism isn’t ok—I’ll call “Racism” three times and then stop flowing all the race5. Classism isn’t ok—I’ll call “bobo” twice before I stop flowing all the classists.6. Clarity is good, but speed is better. I’ll call “slow” three times before not flowing you and giving you an 16 (note: this speaker point number will always be however old I am).7. This is good pump up music but only if you watch the high-quality music video too8. Debate occurs. (unless I am told by the tabroom.com that the debate does not occur)
Everything else is up for pre-round discussion, like if critikes are allowed or if the disad outweighs and is intrinsic to the k’s. I will allow alt use time if all but one debater is in agreement.

A few more thoughts:
Unlike some judges, I flow cross examination and I love a smart/effective c-x. Maybe it’s the byproduct of my being a lawyer, or maybe it's my love of you getting off your blocks and showing some killer critical thinking skills, but when you put “baby in the corner,” I dig it.
I believe that all debaters will grow up to be policy makes. We are all yung policy wonks and such. Thus, the role of the ballot is to vote for who I would vote for in an election.
I find myself voting on well articulated critiques. Listen, I am a pretty smart guy, and if you are a bad ass critique debater and you can explain your position and how it interacts with the debate you are in, you can easily win my ballot.
Three strikes, you're out.


If you need any more info, visit my mentor's philosophy or my coach's philosophy or my best friend's philosophy--I basically am the 3 of them's babi.
  