
  I debated on the local and national circuits for four years at Dulles High School in Texas.

Speed: I'm fine with speed, and I'll say clear or slow until it seems futile. If I say clear, I've probably already missed something, so it could be beneficial to repeat whatever you believe needs repeating. But disclaimer: Honestly, I'm really bad at flowing, so if you're reading a super dense or nuanced position, especially if it's something that's not commonly read, you should definitely slow down on the advocacy and tags, and explain the implications extra clearly because I probably won't be that familiar with it. I will likely also not be that familiar with the topic literature, so if there's any specific jargon or concept that the lay person wouldn't automatically understand, you should clarify what they mean.

Default Paradigm: I'll vote on any kind of position or argument (as in I don't care if you want to read heavy framework cases, LARP, Ks, or theory) provided that the warrants are explained clearly and the conclusions follow from the premises, and with the exception of arguments that make the space hostile to structurally marginalized groups. I won't default anything like competing interpretations or no RVI; that's up to the debaters to set up. I will try not to call for evidence unless there's some kind of dispute about the content, or if I for some reason think that someone has made a blatantly libelous claim about what their opponent's evidence says.

Extensions: I don't need complete re-iterations of the original argument when you're extending it. "Extend [author]" is fine, but obviously if the argument has a different or additional implication in the speech that you're extending it in, you should explain it. But if it's an especially important argument, it certainly wouldn't hurt to re-explain the implication.

Speaks: I'll boost speaks for clarity, both in terms of the content of your speeches as well as your speaking. Also, a interesting, well-executed strategy will get higher speaks. That's kind of vague, but I won't punish anyone with speaks unless they make some kind of very obvious strategic blunder. Moreover, if you definitively won the round by blowing up a one sentence spike, chances are you'll get lower speaks than someone who wins with a creative position that they understand well even if it takes me more time to come to a decision. Also, I'll dock speaks for trying to spread someone out if they're clearly and significantly less experienced.
 

  