
  SCROLL TO THEORY/T FOR TOC UPDATE (and actually read it). IF YOU DON'T YOU PROBABLY WILL REGRET IT. xoxo

Hello!
I'm SunHee and I used to debate for Newark Science in Newark, NJ. I did policy, LD, and world schools in high school and know some things about all three. I currently debate for Stanford's policy team. 
I'm going to number this out and bold important topics/sentences for you so you don't have to read everything if you don't want to.

1. RUN WHATEVER YOU WANT. Just because I was a K debater, doesn't mean that you should only run K's in front of me. I can flow other arguments. I understand other arguments. I want you to do you because that's when debaters debate the best. That being said, do not be offensive. Maybe this may change as I get older, but I will NOT vote for explicitly discriminatory and offensive positions. I still think that debate is an education activity and what you say says something about our community and the norms we create and allow to form within it. Don't be sexist, homophobic, racist, etc., and you should be fine. However, y'all are probably still going to run K's in front of me and pretend that's all I know which is fine. For info on how to do that well, look at #2.

2. I LOVE Ks. I really love race kritiks in particular (not just anti-blackness). That being said, I will not hack for you just because you say Wilderson or Curry because 1) there is more black scholarship out there, 2) I don't only know about black issues and 3) I don't like it when you butcher authors in front of me. Please include some type of framing so I know what you are talking about. This can be in V/VC, ROB/ROJ, or any other framing you can think of. Just let me know what's up. The more specific your links the more willing I will be to listen to your arguments. The clearer the alternative, the stronger your case. Basically, don't pull out a K back file you don't understand because you know I'll be in the back of the room. I will figure it out and your speaks will suffer. Try to care. Please & Thank You <3

3. I will vote on theory/T ONLY if it is clearly explained to me. I did not run those arguments in high school. Something that you feel is conventional to you might sound ridiculous to me. Don't take shortcuts because I will not fill in the blanks for you. If you are clear on what the violation is and why I should give a fuck then you'll be alright. If I look like I'm not flowing what you're saying, move on. This is also recommended even if I am flowing because you don't want to only leave me with a theory flow. As I said, if it is messy I will not look at it; I will go to substance and if you didn't extend anything, I will probably drop you (I will be a little lenient for the 1ar/2ar though because time skew). I'll also give you better speaks if you do this. I default to reasonability and drop the argument. Won't change that unless told otherwise. Don't run frivolous theory in front of me. You will probably lose that round. Please have a clear and consistent story about what they did that was bad. Slow down on the interpretation/counter interpretation. Brownie points if you don't read your fairness/education is a voter dump. Shake it up a little bit.

4. For the love of all things beautiful, ugly, and all in betweens, please WEIGH. For some reason, varsity circuit kids forget that voters are a thing. While I too may have been guilty of forgetting to put explicit voters, judging has made me realize that stuff is important. Don't be mad if you have a bid and you lose to a lay kid because they took time to actually weigh arguments and explain the round to me. Relearn this art before the round if you need to. I will not tolerate after round badgering if you didn't do your job.
*If you are going to grill me after the round, take some more prep time and formulate the argument. Maybe I was wrong but I doubt it. I'm a first year out though so I'm aware that it might happen. Just have either you and/or your coach know what you are mad about/don't understand so it becomes a constructive conversation for all of us.

5. Don't yell at me at 400 words a minute as soon as you hit the timer. I will miss arguments and knock down your speaks. What happened to building up? What happened to nice conversational overviews at the beginning of the 1ar/2nr/2ar? Pace yourself. Slow down a little on tags. Slow down on author names. Slow down on the plan text/CP text. It doesn't take that long to slow down at those points. Variation is a good thing. Chances are your double/triple breaths were taking up that time anyway :)
*I will NOT call for your cards unless: "a) I feel like I misflowed because of something outside of the debater's control, b) There is a dispute over what the evidence says, c) The rhetoric/non underlined parts of the card become relevant." (CQ the Poet) 
It is your job to clearly communicate with me so yeah.

That's all I can think of for now. I might update this depending on things that may upset me as I judge. Have fun and good luck!
  