
  College: Senior at University of Georgia (Not debating)
melodysj@uga.edu



I also highly prefer email chains compared to flashing due to the speed and efficiency during rounds! 


For LD: 
Please make your value/framing of the debate clear to me. Give me reasons why I should prefer your method of thinking - i.e. why is util better than deontology? etc. Speed (spreading) is fine, a-spec, T, CP, Kritik arguments are fine. See policy arguments below for opinions on T, Ks, etc. I'm pretty open to voting on anything just tell me why you win and the person who does the best debating will win.


Short Version:

Speed is fine with me. I want to see a good debate, so run whatever YOU are good at. Don't let my opinions discourage you, because honestly I like a little bit of everything. The only arguments I think I have a high threshold for are Theory arguments. If you think this might impact you, please read below. I'm pretty chill in round and enjoy jokes/fun, so don't feel like you can't ask me questions or anything after or just generally have to be uptight around me. 


Long Version:

General: MAKE YOUR FRAMEWORK CLEAR PLEASE. I don't take prep for flashing unless you take more than ~30 seconds to flash your speech. THINGS THAT ANNOY ME: Stealing prep, not flowing, arguing with me over my RFD, and saying obviously offensive things (racism, sexism, rude). I will dock speaks for these things. Cross-x: Not sure if this is old fashioned but I think cross-x is more for the debaters than for the judges, so don't feel the need to impress me.... be polite, ask the good/important questions and if you find a hole in their aff/neg make sure to BRING it up in the speech. Not in speech = doesn't count for you.


CP: I love counterplan debate! I usually err neg on counterplan theory, however there are limits to this. I think some process CPs can get pretty complicated and I hate topical CPs. Other than that, you're probably safe running any CP/PIC with me, especially if you can defend it's theoretical viability. 


DA/Case: I think the impact analysis needs to be really good in this debate on both sides.PTX is a core DA on every topic so I'm probably not going to vote on PTX Bad Theory.


Ks: I enjoy K's when they are run correctly. I'm fairly familiar with K lit, but that still means I want you to explain the K - not just buzz words!! However, don't feel like you have to spend all your time trying to explain the K to me - I'm most likely familiar with it enough to know what it says. I really want to hear a smart analysis of how the K interacts with the AFF. I think you should make args like K solves/turns case very clear. I also think that not enough teams talk about the alt - you should tell me what it does and why it's important. I really like language K's (ableism, fem, anthro) so if you're running these make sure to explain why language in a debate round/life is important! Also deleuze..... <3


T/Framework: I lean towards competing interpretations and T is always a voter; however T is never a RVI (reverse voting issue i.e. voting aff because aff is topical or voting aff because neg ran T ext...) Make your standards clear and impact your standards. I'm not going to vote for T just because you say the aff is untopical. Explain why your interp/standards are better for the debate and future debates etc.... For affs that are more resolutional / untopical kritik affs, I am willing to not vote on T if you give me a better interpretation/framework on how the topic/policy debate should be. i.e. united states fg would be an immoral, unethical, bad actor in XYZ instances. Just explain it and make sure you give me reasons to perfer your interpretation.
Theory: I have a pretty high threshold for theory arguments. I lean more towards theory as a reason to reject the arg and less toward theory as a reason to reject the team. However, that doesn't mean I will never vote to reject the team. I have I will, especially if they are doing something incredibly unfair (i.e. running new CP in the 2NR, clipping cards) or if they drop it. I would vote on condo if the team runs so many off that it is obviously hurting the debate. I think you should impact it more than just "X is unfair," give me more of a reason to vote down the team than that. I think topic edu and edu in future debates are very important. Education standards are more persuasive to me than fairness standards because although I think debate is game-like, I think the most important part of debate is learning via the game not necessarily winning the game. Also, if you are going to go for a theory argument, you need to dedicate most/all of your speech time on it. It needs to be fleshed out, it needs to be impacted. I hated when judges voted on a 2 second blip on Condo in the 2AR when I was debating, so I'm not going to do that. If they drop Condo - that's great, I'll vote on it, just put the time and impact analysis into it, not just 2 seconds of: they dropped Condo, reject the team. Also random theory arguments like agency cps bad, etc kind of annoy me if they're just a time suck and it seems like something you would never go for.


K affs/performance affs: Like them. FRAMEWORK! Please make your FW/ ROB clear to me. For the neg, PLEASE challenge their framework or the debate will lack very much clash, if you want to run a K against them, you don't have to just agree with their FW - challenge their methods/methodology.


Speaks: Speed is fine, clarity is better, esp on tags. I want to vote on the arguments that make up the majority of your 2AR/2NR so plan those speeches accordingly, if I end up voting for something you spent 2 seconds on in your speech, your speaks will suffer because you should have spent more time on your winning args and fleshed them out. I usually average around a 28.5 and go up or down accordingly.
  