
  I graduated high school in 2016. I was an LD debater for all four years and went to TFA state junior and senior year as well as debated on the TOC circuit for 3 years. I was a progressive debater for LD in high school but I also debated UIL so I am fine with either style of debating.

I don't believe in time skew theory because if there really was a time skew then one side of the debate would always have an advantage, but the win-loss record shows 50% win rate for each side so the theory doesn't exist

I am fine with speed I spread while I was debating but I will dock speaker points if you are an unclear spreader. Also if while your spreading your voice gets extremely quiet it becomes very hard for me to hear you so please don’t do that. I will give indicators that I cannot understand you by saying “clear” 3 times. If I say “clear” more than 3 times in a speech I will dock speaker points.

Argumentation wise I am fine with any types of arguments I ran K’s, Disads, and CP all the time in high school. If you run off cases let me know so I can get more paper, also I would prefer that the off cases make sense with the resolution and you’re not just running them to confuse your opponent. If you run a K or a Disad you need have legitimate links that deal with the resolution. I do think FW is important in the round but that doesn’t mean if you win your FW you automatically win the round. I will vote off of the offense given throughout the round and will not extend offense through the round unless you as the debater do it. If you run an offensive argument such as, let’s commit genocide against a certain culture, or racist arguments, etc. I will vote you down no questions asked.

Theory is fine as long as there is real justification and abuse going on in the round. I am not a fan of running theory to trip the other debater up or running it just because you can. Also if the AFF is obviously topical don’t run T.

K: make sure that if the literature is abstract that you use the rebuttal time to clarify the literature, I don't read every book written by a german/french dude so make sure that what you are reading is at least logical. If you can clarify what your K is during CX by answering in a guided way i will probably give you a speaker point boost. For example, if the AFF ask you "What is the alt?" and you somehow explain the K while answering the question that's when I will give out the points. However, that being said I don't want you to go on a tangent and ignore the question asked. Don't throw out random perms and hope they drop one give me an idea as to what the world of a permutation looks like.


Condo: I think 1 off and case is reasonable, don't be afraid to go 2 off just have good justifications if you do. Just a caution that i will be more lenient to the AFF's side if they question the necessity of you reading your off cases
  