
  I did not debate extensively on the national circuit, so I would like you to present clear arguments at a speed that an experienced debate coach could understand. If you are speaking too quickly, I will verbally ask you to slow down. You may spread your opponent, but please do not include nonsense or repeat yourself in an attempt to confuse your opponent. Content outweighs quantity. I do keep a comprehensive flow and will vote primarily on the key arguments on the flow.

I expect all cases to have values and criteria that are not circular and that link back to the resolution. You are not required to cite any philosopher because I accept personal analysis as long as it is logical and clear. 

Please do not present specific plans or counterplans for the resolution. For example, if the topic is "Resolved: Public health concerns justify compulsory immunization", please do not present hyperspecific plans that advocate only implementing one vaccine. This is irritating and does not conform to the spirit of Lincoln Douglas debate.

Kritiks are fine as long as values and criteria are included.

Please do not run theory unless there is clear evidence of abuse.

In general, I would like debaters to provide me with philosophical and practical arguments that discuss the resolution. The best cases will explore the nuances of a specific position with contentions that flow together to support an overarching thesis, but I will accept cases that present multiple different arguments. However, the 1AC should not have points that are dropped later on. Please only present as much material as you are able to defend.

I expect rebuttals to be responsive, and I am particularly partial to impact turns. Weighing analysis is also acceptable, but must be provided in voting issues rather than directly on the flow. While presenting voting issues, debaters should discuss the key arguments in the round and explain why they feel that they won those key arguments.

I do not permit debaters to use flex prep.

If you have any questions, please feel free to ask me before the round begins.
  