
  I have judged for five years at NFL and CFL Nationals in PFD, LD, and Congress. I was excited to judge the finals in the Senate Chamber at Nationals last year. I do judge LD, PFD and CX as well as speech events in Alaska.

I prefer a more traditional style of Lincoln Douglas Debate but will vote on a convincing Kritik with appropriate evidence. That said, I do not entertain language kritiks as they fail to permit language to change. As a language arts teacher, the fluidity of language is a key to understanding text in context. As such, I also dislike definitional debate. Mr Webster or Mr. Blackstone will suffice. With relatively few exceptions, I will not entertain the superiority of one definition over another solely on the basis of the source. Application or context can be discussed.

As this is still values and ethics debate, I want to see values and criterion. If you fail to provide a criterion, we will default to your opponent's. You must show me links and impacts. I do flow and will vote on my flow. Using my flow has been exceptionally useful and on a panel, I have found that I am usually in the majority with relatively few exceptions.

Speed can be used as an abusive weapon and as such destroys a debater's ethos. Don't expect good speaks if you employ such tactics. Also, I prefer depth and quality of arguments vs quantity of arguments. If you speak too fast, I will NOT be able to flow your arguments and if it is not on my flow , it did not happen. Clarity and enunciation are key in any speech and will be rewarded on the flow. I will say "clear" only once then if speed continues, I will simply drop my pen and not flow. Therefore in the vernacular of my youth, "Speed kills" and your arguments die.

Tagline are important. I will ask for evidence IF it become a point of contention over what the card really says. If you are going to use it, you better have it and you really should know what it says. Be careful when cutting cards to not change the meaning as someone may ask to actually read the card in its entirety to determine if the meaning is as claimed. This does not happen a great deal but I have seen more than one debate round settled in such a fashion. 

Flashing cases or evidence will not impact speaking or prep time. However, it would be nice to see it done prior to the start of the round. As such, it is also important to know your personal technology devices to prevent issues during the round. Chargers are important so don't leave yours at home or in a hotel room because you are in a world of hurt if your computer dies mid round. It is just not a pretty sight. Have a back up plan if you do not have a charger...even old fashioned paper will work. 

I expect civility in round and expect opponents to respect one another while disagreeing with their arguments. Personal attacks and rude language have no place in the debate space. The lack of the ability to articulate is no excuse for negative behavior.

I do appreciate well articulated arguments and those that can impact based on historical precedence. As a historian, I value the research that goes into using historical precedence as evidentiary support.

I will reward good speakers. With saying that, I also will use speaks to send a message that certain speaking styles and tactics are unacceptable. Avoid boorish behavior and be nice.

Have fun in round, learn something and make new friends. The debate community is a fun one to join and I encourage you all to enjoy the experience.
  