
  Background
Bill Skimmyhorn
United States Military Academy
William.Skimmyhorn@usma.edu

I am one of the Assistant Coaches for the Army Debate Team. By trade,
I am an Army Officer and an Economics Instructor in the Department of
Social Sciences. Last year I was the Director of Forensics at Saint
Francis HS in Mountain View, CA. I debated for 3 years in HS
(1990-1993) and for 4 years in CEDA at USMA (1993-1997). I'm excited
about reengaging with forensics at the collegiate level.


Philosophy
By default, I tend to be a policy-maker. Having said that, I try to
let the debaters decide what's important. Framework arguments seem
relevant in nearly all of today's debates, especially if critical
arguments are presented by either team. I appreciate viable
alternatives (in the policy or critical realms) and clear explanations
and scenario development. Theory is fine too but I encourage thorough
explanations and commitment in the final rebuttals.

Speed is fine but the issue is typically clarity. Don't feel you have
to spread to win. I find that most teams would do better cutting the
number of responses they make by 1/3 or so and increasing their
thinking and analysis. If I had to choose, I prefer depth to breadth
(though I realize a balance between the two is typically the best Neg
strategy). If you're unclear, I'll say, "clear," but only twice. After
that you'll see that I stop flowing and it's up to you to adjust.

I hope our round together will be an enjoyable one. To that end,
manners and ethics are very important to me and will be incorporated
in assigning speaker points. I find the best debaters can balance
their desire to win with healthy amounts of humor and humility. Given
the work involved in this activity, I do hope that you enjoy your
competitions.

I'll disclose after I make my decision. I do so with the understanding
that a debate with the debaters will not ensue.

If you have any specific questions, feel free to ask.

Best wishes on a successful tournament and season.
  