
  This paradigm is focused on LD:

Overview: My judging philosophy comes from many years as a trial attorney. That does not make me an automatic "good judge," depending on your point of view. I am often the squirrel. If I were forced to place myself in a category, I guess I would say I am a "skills" judge. I do not like debates where the students forget there is a judge in the room. I do not like jargon or "games." My attitude is this: "if I were to place my students in front of their School Board, and have them debate an issue of vital importance, would my bosses be able to follow the plot and I'd be proud? Or would I know my bosses were utterly confused, were wondering why they were supporting a program that teaches students to deliberately muddy the waters, and I should pack my bags?" Good, clear clash with a good weighing analysis and a decision calculus or criterion to evaluate the arguments is essential. Presentation skills are essential. These are "life skills": clarity, simplicity and power of persuasion.

Speed: Definitely not preferred. Slow and steady can win my race. If I were to argue to a jury at 400 wpm, I'd be cited for contempt and be sued for malpractice. Speed is not a "life skill" per se. The skill of "thinking on one's feet" is already achieved without it. A student can truly anger me by speeding when I have told them this philosophy--see "speaks" below. You are heading toward a <27 if I have to put my pen down. If it stays down while you are speaking, you lost the round AND got bad speaks to boot, so you are off the bubble.

Theory: Only for checking true abuse. It seems to me that theory is a direct appeal to the judge to intervene. Since I can't rule on the issue immediately, please don't suddenly drop your entire case just to run theory. I don't need an elaborate theory arg consuming full minutes of your precious time. Point out the abuse and then diffuse the situation and proceed. I'll vote off of it if I have to, but I'll probably already know it when I see it.

Kritiks/Critical Arguments: I prefer stock just because that is what I am best used to. But I will vote off a thoughtful K if the round really seems to be going that way. Not preferred, but I was a comp lit major and a lawyer and I have read an awful lot of critical literature. Appropos of nothing, my experience as a trial lawyer may actually make me somewhat susceptible to a narrative, so go figure.

Plans/Counterplans: Disallowed by the rules in Lincoln Douglas and Public Forum. Too bad, because I like them. To me, they are "life skill" arguments. Oh, well. That's for Policy Debate--which I don't judge much of because of my dislike of speed.

Odds and Ends: Please time yourselves and do so cooperatively. Be well-dressed and professional at all times. Assertiveness is great--PD is a powerful life skill--but rudeness is very, very bad. It's a thin line, but one that you must learn as a "life skill." Assume I am a little tired since I've been moving my own students around all day. I'll do everything I can to give you my utmost attention, care and consideration. Please be similarly considerate toward your judge. In law, you sometimes get a bench ruling and you sometimes get a written opinion. I don't like disclosure because (1) it gums up the tournament; and (2) far too often a student argues against the decision--the tabroom is waiting for the ballot and/or "Flight B" is waiting outside. You are likely to get a 30-second debrief at best if I am required to disclose. Otherwise--it will all be on the ballot. Also: whether you find me fair or unfair, karma will intervene on your behalf someday. When done right, this is the greatest academic activity in all of high school. Enjoy both the wins and the losses--you are all great kids.

Speaker Points: I share a philosophy with my Assistant Coaches: 30s will be extremely rare and so will anything less than 26.

30- Well done, you're definitely one of my favorites
29- Great presentation, good arguments, I enjoyed the debate
28- You are doing a solid job but could grow
27- You have not reached your potential or are being somewhat slimy or rude
26- Entering the "you're unprofessional" zone
25 and below- This should not happen.
  