
  Updated- 2/19/17 

Pronouns- He/Him/His or They/Them/Their

Short version- Justify how I'm supposed to evaluate this round and ill do it. Win under that paradigm. I generally will do my best to limit my feelings about the type of debate you want me to adopt. 

If you don't need all of the time in your rebuttals then don't take it all. If you think that you've made all the args you need to win the round and enforced them enough then feel free to end speech early. Id rather not listen to the same argument 7 times in the same speech. 

Background: Currently unaffiliated and haven't judged in a while. I coached at Rowland Hall for two years. Graduated in 2015. Competed locally and on the circuit my junior and senior years. I qualified to the TOC my senior year and have since coached other debaters to the TOC, Nationals, and State. 

Overview- Slow down on tags and authors, interps, alts and we will be fine. By slowing down on these it allows me to follow you better and thats what you want. You dont have to change to conversational pace but definitely change tone and use indicating words (and, thus, next, etc). Additionally if your entire speech(rebuttal or constructive) sounds the exact same at the same pace and same inflection chances are I will miss emphasis on the arguments you don't want me to. I will evaluate off of what framework you tell me to evaluate off of and go from there. Being how reliant I am on framework and flows overviews are a wonderful idea.

Case Positions: I'm fine with anything. All stock issues and more creative/unusual positions are good. As I'm sure that doesn’t help you decide what type of strats to run I've included specifics below but don’t read to much into them because I want you to feel free to debate how you want to.

Plans, CPs, DAs, anything Util- Policy/LARP debates are cool, make sure to weigh and in case of conflicting frameworks remember I start at the framework debate and funnel down from there.

Ks (including performance)- Specificity over generic. I am happy to judge an identity debate just make sure I know what my role is in the round. Slow down on tags!!! Explain Alts!!! I do not understand every k or framework that has been read in debate, its probly a good idea to explain the argument. Cross ex is a fantastic time to do this.

Topicality- Yes. Unlike most people I think these are actually some good debates to watch. T is similar enough to theory in my book that it can warrant an RVI however I maintain a default of no RVI and go from there.

Theory- Default to no RVIs and drop the debater. I am much more inclined to buy in round abuse but am also willing to vote for out of round arguments (such as disclosure) if there is verifiable proof. I will vote on disclosure theory but I tend to get grumpy when this is getting ran to bully independent debaters. 

Philosophy- Other than Util this was my other main style. Solid framework debates require solid explanations- use cx to your advantage. Dont assume I understand the philosophy your reading.

Skep- I have seen skep ran in an intriguing way however I find rounds where skep is used to devolve to theory debate boring and often lead to intervention. If you are running skep the best way for me to pick you up is run it as a framework debate rather than theory, tricks, or presumption. Skep that defaults to things like genocide is bad.

Speed: I'd give myself a 7/10. Slow down on tags and analysis and we will be friends. I will call clear, slow, or signpost twice but after that I won't be writing anything so either my pen won't be moving or it'll be down. Clear=you are the same tone no distinction between arguments no articulation can't tell difference between tags and body of card or when you went onto the next argument. Slow=going to fast. Signpost= what flow are we on, what argument/card does this address. If at the end of the debate you disagree with my decision a large percentage of the time it will be because you are didn't weigh or didn't em

Evidence: I tend to call for evidence quite a bit especially in instances of bad weighing or competing weighing that isn't conclusive. If you tell me to call for a card after the round Ill call for it. However me calling for a card isn't a substitute for your in round weighing.

Speaker Points: I give 30's sometimes generally for solid weighing and clear breakdowns in the round. Speaker points are super subjective based on the tournament and round but I try to keep them consistent-28 is an above averaged debater.

Weighing: 11/10 Most important part of the round.

Courtesy, Respect, Attire, Demeanor, etc: Stand, sit, wear jeans, wear a suit, wear a panda costume do whatever. Important!!!- When debating a novice, someone significantly worse than yourself, or any other similar situation be courteous. We were all there once. Take the time to explain the case, Theory, etc. even if they don’t ask what it means eco If it's clear they don’t understand take the time to help them learn so hopefully the get something out of it instead of walking out of the round hating debate. It's ok to spread in front of a novice still when it's accompanied by analysis and not patronizing explanation. Make them walk out of the room going “I want to debate like them ” not “I hate debate” or “I hate progressive debaters”.

Non-Paradigmatic issues-
1) Feel free to include me in the email chain (calenjsmith@gmail.com) if you'd like. I wont substitute your lack of clarity for looking at the doc, it will be a reference to what I get on the flow.
2) Flashing is not prep.


Things I like:
Humor- good categories include Taylor Swift, Ke$ha, Mean Girls, Song Lyrics, Puns, Science jokes etcSASS!!! (especially sassy Cross ex)Clear roadmaps and signpostingSlow tag linesUnique positionsTopic specific impactsGood warrantsOverviews
Things I REALLY don’t like and wont vote for: (I wish I didn’t have to include this)
RacismSexismPersonal AttacksXenophobiaAnything similarPresumption
Note on post rounding- Questions are cool this is not:

I will answer any questions you have beyond this via email or before the round.

Have a fun debate. Your style of debate is important. You are important.

Contact info- calenjsmith@gmail.com
  