
  Smith, Deann
 
Background: I am the coach and tournament administrator for Liberty Christian School in Argyle, TX.


Judging Experience: I have judged Novice/Varsity LD, PF, and IEs for 4 years

Updated: 02/04/16


LD and PF:

TL;DR
Speed: NO!!!
Will I "Clear" You: Yes
Flex Prep: Only for Clarification
Will I Call For Cards: Yes
Will I disclose: Yes, if it is obvious who won the round. Otherwise give me the time to make the right decision and look over my flows. I won't disclose speaker points
RFD: Sure, but don't argue.
Speaker Points: See below.

Traditional Casing: Preferred
Philosophy: Use it
Kritiks [Pre/Post Fiat]: Yes
Kritiks [Discourse]: No
LARPING: Sure, If justified
Performance: Depends on how you justify it
Theory: No

Speed/Aesthetics/Pre-Post Round:
I am NOT a fan of spreading! If I cannot understand you, I cannot vote for you. I will say clear twice. If you continue to spread I will not flow you. Debate the resolution and the argument not your opponent (no ad hom attacks)I don't care if you stand or sit during speeches Flex Prep is fine, but only ask clarification questions (i.e. "What is contention three" or "Do you defend X)I will call for cards after the round to check validity of evidence when contestedI disclose if I am sure who won the round, but I'm going to be honest, my oral RFDs are pretty bad. I flow and know what happened in the round, I'm just not the best at putting my thoughts into words.
Speaker Point Scale:
30-Clear, Concise, No errors to speak of 
29-Clear, Concise, but with a few too many "Ums"
28- I've heard better all day
27-You need a bit of work
26 or below- you offended me in some way

Annoying phrases to avoid:
"Like"
"Um"
"So"
"IF YOU DON'T BUY THAT" (I really hate this)

Traditional:
I consider myself to be a very lay judgeThese are my favorite types of debates, especially when done well and at a conversational speedI like a good, philosophical framework with solid contentionsI prefer recent evidence [within the last 5 years] unless it is philosophical
Philosophy:
I enjoy listening to philosophy, but don't make it the crux of the round, I definitely want to hear some resolutional analysisI understand a lot of philosophy and can reason through it, but I would avoid overly complex frameworks (Meta Ethics are a red flag, but basic philosophy is fine)
Kritiks [Pre/Post Fiat]:
I really enjoy kritikal debate when done wellI prefer when the kritik is linked to the specific position, not the resolutionYou need a clear alternative, tell me what you're doing instead of the bad things (I don't like reject alts, have an implementable alt)Please provide a strong link. I have an extremely low threshold for answers to weak k linksI am uncomfortable with ROTB/ROTJ, but I will evaluate it if presented (If you have to run a ROTB/ROTJ, try to link into the opponents framing too)
Kritiks [Discourse]:
I don't link these. Don't run them, it's a cop out. 
LARPING [Plans CPs, DAs, etc]
I am okay with these arguments so long as you can justify themWhen you specify an advocacy, stick with itNO CONDITIONALITY It makes me sad :(
Performance:
Open to it if it's not offensiveNO SLURS OF ANY KINDNarratives are fine if properly cited IF NOT CITED AND I HAVE ANY REASON TO DOUBT THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE NARRATIVE I WILL DROP YOUArt/Dancing performance is a lot of funMusic performance is cool as long as it's appropriate
Theory/Topicality:
Please don't do this. It seems like you're whining and I don't like itI'm okay with T if they're obviously way off topicI really don't like frivolous T/Theory. If the opponent is being blatantly abusive than you're fine running T/Theory, but things like bidirectional theory are a no-go with me.
Things I hate that you should know about:
BE ON TIME! I will dock speaker points for tartiness. I'm also not afraid of the 15 min DQ rule.When you get to the round, be prepared to debate (don't be shuffling papers or preflowing in round)"Ought" vs "Just" Debates. Don't do it.Incoherent or overly complex frameworksRedundant Contentions or pointsPRESUMPTION. There is always SOMETHING to vote off.
Things that make me happy:
GOING FOR THE JUGULAR. The one caveat is do not be mean or rude. (This is the best way to get high speaks if done in a courteous way)Short Roadmaps and SIGNPOSTINGClear, solid voters (Voters are a must)When you adapt to my paradigmWhen you read my paradigm and i don't have to explain it when you get here [+.2 speaks for telling me you read my paradigm before round]
IF THERE IS NO WAY THAT YOU COULD POSSIBLY BREAK:
Have Fun!!!Running weird/off the wall cases in this situation is totally fine [Fluffy Bunnies/Death of Debate/Reptilian Illuminati/Double Drop/Decathalon/etc]
IEs:

I am NOT a progressive judge. I do not like profanity filled, non-age appropriate material. Watch blocking and timing. Make me forget I am judging, bring me into your story. 
  