
  I was a debater from 9th grade until my fifth year of college, debating for Towson University from 2002-2007. I have been judging high school debate since 2002, but I will warn my speedreaders that I have had a few years off, just returning to the debate scene full swing this year. My ears are finely tuned to listen, but I don’t think that it is a clever tactic to read so that your opponents have no clue what you are saying. This is debate, I expect to hear a debate. I am well versed on the topic for the year, and look forward to getting more in-depth with some of the more detailed arguments surrounding the topic. Here are a few things that guide my judging thoughts:
I like clash, not just tons of arguments. With that being said, in terms of speed, fast is ok as long as long as long as clarity or volume are not neglected.Quality over Quantity Always! The number of issues you raise are not as nearly as important as how you argue the issues. I never saw the point in running 6 or 7 offcase, even when being strategic, I feel most times, it’s overkill.Cheap shots, time sucks or just plainly abusive arguments are not voters.Kritiks are acceptable when run correctly. Decide, understand and be able to advocate why your framework change is a reason to get the ballot. I will not assume any links or impacts unless they are debated.T, like any other argument, needs clearly articulated reasons why it’s a vote. Education is a big deal to me, so in the past has easily become a voter.PICs justify perms. So both sides need to be able to prove why their solvency mechanism prevails.The link should be an important part of the offensive strategy.Because I haven’t been judging on the high school circuit recently, I am excited to see the new styles and personalities of debaters. With that being said, remember that being rude or offensive in any way during a round will immediately put up a caution sign for me. If you are not able to articulate an idea without controlling these, it most definitely does not work in your favor. Good Speaker Points come from a combination of delivery, presentation of arguments, personality and engagement. At the end of the day, I go to the flow and how arguments have been analyzed to decide the ballot. I am looking for the clearest and most articulated story from beginning to end. This is why I enjoy judging.Last, but not least, I come from the era of expandos and tubs, and am still getting used to the idea of paperless debate for practical reasons, so when judging, I do not expect there to be any change in expectations due to paperless debate, I would still prefer debaters stand and face me when debating, be able to share evidence (if allowed) and good use of evidence. If you have any questions or need to me to go in-depth on any particular topic, please feel free to email me at trinya@budl.org.
  