
  Affiliation: Chandler High School

I am currently a second-semester sophomore at Northern Arizona University. I am primarily a Lincoln-Douglas style debater but I do sometimes dabble in different IE's (ADS and persuasive so far). I am very successful at this activity and with that, I take a lot of pride in being part of this community. My major rule is to take each round seriously and treat it with respect, including your opponent and your judges. This is a very special activity to partake in and everyone should feel safe and welcomed. Don't waste my time, your opponents, or your own.

But, to get more into argument specifics I can get down with everything. I personally am a Kritik debater so if that's your thing don't sweat it, I can follow. I'll listen to theory but just make sure you explain it well so I can understand what the argument you are making is. I find topicality arguments to be strategic, but there's a difference between a strategic T and a BS one. If I don't see any in round abuse or you don't explain to me why its aprori then I will not vote on it. I hate abuse arguments i.e. they spoke too fast, they ran a kritik and I'm a novice, etc etc etc. If you want to make me be sad then run that. 


I am a flow judge, so I will definitely take into consideration what arguments were dropped and which ones weren't. I also will look a lot into impacts. Impacts are a way for me to see why I need to take your argument more seriously than your opponents. However, I won't come up with these on my own. In other words, I will only consider what exactly was said in round. If you say that by doing something, we will be oppressing a certain group of people but you don't say WHY this is bad, then I won't take it upon myself to understand why it is bad/holds an impact. 

If you spread, make sure I'm flowing you. I can follow almost everyone but if you lose some pronunciation in the speech then I'll get lost.

So, just have fun and be respectful to the topic. You are a representation of your school and the forensics community.
  