
  I will not vote for any argument that is impacted in terms of a truth-testing paradigm. If you both do that, you will get 10s.  
I feel comfortable flowing most speeds and will say Clear if you are becoming unclear. If you do go fast, I think I share the universal sentiment that it's very important you slow down for tags and author names. Also, if you have a paragraph of analytics in your framework please slowdown or at least make it clear where one argument starts and another ends with something like numbers. If I miss a blip in the framework when you read the 1AC that magically precludes the NC in the 1AR I'm going to very hesitant to grant you that argument.

I'll use whatever decision calculus is decided upon in round. If the framework debate is messy I'll try to sort it out but if it's beyond hope i feel inclined to default to a net benefits calculation. That can be easily avoided by just making the framework debate clear for me. I need any argument to be extended in full if you want me to evaluate it. "Extend contention 1" is not extending. You must reiterate the claim warrant and impact if you want the argument considered. When extending arguments, please weigh as well. If you don't tell me which argument are the most important I'll probably just pick the one i think is most important. 

 
I would prefer you a) not say the Holocaust is good and b) not run A prioris. By which I mean I will not listen to those. You can run critical arguments but I am not familiar with that literature at all so explain it very well or I won't know what's happening. If i don't know what your case says I won't vote on it. If you intentionally make the debate confusing by not explaining anything in CX or waiting until your last speech to clarify that arg not only will I not know what your case says, you will also lose speaker points. 

I'm fine with debaters running theory whenever they see fit. Fairness is important. You can argue why it's only a reason to reject the arg instead out the debater but do not think you will win it's irrelevant. Also, I'll vote on potential abuse. 
 


 
 
  