
  Lynbrook High School '16
Johns Hopkins Univ '20

Short VersionI will vote on anything that is clearly explained to me and not offensive (things like death good are fine, but things like rape or oppression good and/or anything that makes debate an unsafe space will be problematic in front of me, feel free to ask me about this before the round). Ks, theory, plans, larp, phil - all good. The only thing I'd really rather not see are weird blippy tricks designed to remove any chance of substance from the round (ex: a prioris) - do not read these in front of me or, if you do, explain their function in the round very well. In general, you just do what you're best at and just explain your arguments and how they interact with your opponents' arguments and the ballot well. Overviews are always great for framing the round!
Prep ends when the flash drive leaves your computer and, if you're emailing, don't stop prep before compiling your speech doc. If you don't provide your opponent access to your case (hard copy, flashing, viewing laptop, emailing, something!), you will get very low speaks and make me very upset. If you would like to include me in an email chain, feel free to do so. Do not steal prep and do not ask me for time to preflow.
If you have questions about my specific feelings on certain arguments, feel free to read below.
SpeedIf I didn't catch something on my flow, I'm not voting on it. That being said, I will say slow and clear as many times as necessary. In general, I'm fairly accustomed to moderate speed, but make sure you're clear and slow down if you're reading dense literature or a lot of quick analytical arguments. I have a fairly low threshold for extensions, but explain the implication of the argument in the round well.
FrameworkMake sure you have a clear framing mechanism that tells me how to evaluate the round and what impacts matter. Also, don't just mention it once in the AC and never again - explain how the arguments in the round interact with it.I don't care at all about the framework structure - ROB, Value - VC, do whatever you're most comfortable with.I'm not very well-read in dense philosophy, so make sure to slow down on more dense cards/warrants and clearly explain how your framework functions in the round if you're reading more complex philosophy.
Theory/TI default competing interps, drop the argument, and no RVIs. However, I don't prefer these or any such thing - they're just how I'll default to evaluating the theory/T debate absent any other arguments. If you make arguments to the contrary, I'll buy them. In fact, I actually lean towards drop the debater and RVIs good on the actual issues; I just need arguments to be made for those more "severe" impacts.I ran a fair amount of frivolous theory/T, so I don't really care if you run it on actual abuse or strategically. However, make sure you weigh between standards and make the debate clear for me to evaluate rather than muddy.Slow down on interps and don't throw out a bunch of blippy 8-word arguments at 500 wpm - I won't catch them. Make sure you adjust for the fact that theory is often shorter, analytic arguments.
Ks/Critical ACsI read quite a few critical ACs and some Ks during my career and am definitely a fan of these types of arguments. That being said, I'm not very well-read in the literature, so definitely make sure to slow down when you're reading dense literature and explain your arguments and their implications well in your rebuttals.Make sure you can clearly explain your alt. Don't conflate the pre and post fiat distinction.
Plans/CPs/DAsGreat! I was always a fan of specificity with your arguments. If you're reading a plan or CP, make sure you can clearly explain the action your plan/CP takes. If you're reading a DA, make sure you can clearly explain the link and uniqueness. Do a lot of impact analysis!
TricksDo not read these in front of me, please. My threshold will be very high if you're just reading blippy arguments meant to precede other arguments so you can get out of clash. If you're reading well-warranted arguments and clearly explain why they precede other arguments, that's totally fine!If you want to go for the blippy preclusion/definitional arguments in front of me (but why?), make sure the argument is clearly explained & implicated in the original speech (this means explain its purpose/function in the round and what arguments exactly it precedes) and continues to be explained & implicated throughout the round.
SpeaksGood Speaks - Good prep and case-sharing (flashing/emailing/whatever) practices. Good explanation of arguments and weighing. In general, making the debate a positive and educational experience for everybody involved.Bad Speaks - Stealing prep. Being rude. Bad argument explanation, forcing me to intervene to weigh arguments. Weird tricks that have the sole purpose of preceding substance and avoiding clash.
Other Important ThingsAs a judge, it is my duty to make debate a safe space that we can all benefit from. Thus, I will not vote on offensive arguments, such as rape good or oppression good. This isn't any attempt to censor your arguments or limit your choices and, 99% of the time, this won't even be relevant in a round, but just want to clarify for the 1%. Feel free to ask me about this before round.Don't be rude to your opponent, especially if they're less experienced than you. If you are continuously rude, your speaker points will reflect it.As stated earlier, prep ends when the flash drive leaves your computer and don't stop prep before compiling your speech doc. Do not steal prep. If you would like to include me in the email chain, feel free to do so.Also, make sure you can provide your opponent with a copy of your case throughout the round, not just in CX or prep or whatever.
Contact InfoIf you have any questions, feel free to email me at shailjasomani@gmail.com, send me a message on Facebook, or ask me right before the round.
  