
  Background: I competed at Flower Mound High School for 4 years. I did every debate event through my career but spent most of my time doing LD. At the climax of my debate career I got a bid to the TOC and finished top 8 at tfa state. I now help coach Flower Mound.

General Views on debate: I just left the debate community so am familiar with many of the current norms. There isn't a type of debate that I particularly like or dislike as I feel a good util debate can be just as entertaining to listen to as a K heavy debate. I have no presuppositions as to what my role as a judge should be so feel free to read a role of the ballot. That in mind, don't be afraid to make arguments against a role of the ballot or provide a counter one. I will also try to disclose in every round.

Speed: Go as fast as you want but keep in mind my teammates made fun of me because I was awful at flowing. That doesn't mean I didn't hear what you said but just that I probably didn't get the time to pen it down. If I'm flowing on my laptop then this shouldn't be a problem but if I'm flowing on paper try to slow down for tags. I'll say clear if you need me too.

T/Theory: I loved Topicality/Theory as a debater so read them if you feel like there is abuse in the round, but if I think the shell was unnecessary you won't get great speaks.

Kritiks: I have read lots of K lit and love hearing authors like DnG and Foucault. That being said, I think many debaters are bad at running Ks so unless you are reading a generic cap K, think carefully about how well you know your arguments and how the K would function in the round before reading it because if it's done badly you will probably lose.

Da/Cp/ CX style args: Go for it. All have a place in LD debate.

Yes you can sit down and debate.

Speaks: I base speaks on the quality of argumentation in the round. As a debater I hated how hard it was to get 30 speaks, so if you debate really well you can bet you will get a 30. Still, speaks are relative. I don't know the criteria until I hear you debate. Be funny, be clear,use good vocabulary and make smart decisions and you are well on your way to a 30.


Things I don't like
Presumption: I won't vote on presumption so don't bother running it. I assume there is always a risk of offense in the round and there is no such thing as terminal defense.Debaters not understanding their arguments: If you are going to read an argument, you have to know what it means and be able to explain it. This is especially true with dense philosophical arguments. I'm not going to do any work for you.Being racist, homophobic, sexist, xenophobic, etc
Feel free to ask me any questions before round.
  