
  Background: I debated for fours years at Montville Township High school in NJ, mostly in LD and occasionally in PF.

Short Version: I lean slightly towards traditional LD. That said, I have no problem with any kind of circuit argument, as long as you warrant your arguments. I'm fine with a bit of speed , though prefer you to go slower during more philosophically dense arguments.
 
Long Version
 
Speed: I'm fine with a speaking pace that's above average, but I'm not going to be able to catch what you say if you're just blazing through arguments. Moreover, on dense arguments with heavy philosophy, or kritiks, you need to go slower than usually. Also slow down slightly for card names. I'll call out clear twice if I can't catch what you're saying, and after that I';; just stop writing. Finally, if you're going to go really fast, just ease into and pick up speed as you speak, instead of starting off blazing.

Crossex: Just don't be rude or racist or anything like that. Use the time well, a good cx will always be reflected in speaker points. Moreover, it's a great time to rag on your opponents arguments and make them seem weak/expose holes in them.

Kritiks/Theory/DA's/etc: I'm fine with whatever argument you run generally, and will buy most things in terms of Disads and Kritiks, as long as you warrant them. Just slow down on the dense kritiks. For theory, I'll buy whatever arguments, but do have a few defaults if no one makes any arguments. Theory is a matter of competing interpretations and RVIs are true. That said, if you win an argument saying the opposite, then I'll buy it.

Framework: I'll buy whatever you say, as long as it's not an intrinsically offensive argument like oppression good or some racist junk. Just weigh your arguments. Crystalize at the end, and keep it dope.

General: Again, pretty much buy anything where you don't come off as racist or offensive. Good weighing and extensions make me very happy. Poor weighing and extensions make me less happy, but it's whatever in JV rounds. No weighing or extensions make me very sad. Basically look at me as if I'm Forrest Gump. I don't want to think at the end of the round, and it makes my job easier if you clarify all of this stuff and tell me how the round breaks down. Otherwise, I determine that stuff, and there's a fifty% chance you won't like the outcome. Also Crystalization is very important at the end. You have about 40 minutes of debate, that you ought to condense into 2 or 3 minutes. This is key to helping Forrest decide the round.


Basically say whatever, just be smart about it and don't be racist or otherwise offensive, and most importantly, don't make me work harder than the bare minimum I need to do.
  