
  School strikes: Mount St. Charles Academy, Boston University, Wake Forest University, Georgetown University

I have been out of the community for some time, but jeez am I excited to be judging you. Debate is debate, and I value all formats, except Lincoln-Douglas. My background is in policy debate. I went to BU, but I kept losing to our cross-town rival Doowon Chung, so we both transferred to Wake, where he ditched me to debate with his brother, and I quit. I’m now an aspiring hired judge for Georgetown, but Mr. Paul does not return my emails.

I’m a little out of practice flowing, unless you count watching the Red Sox #lol. Please be clear. 

Here are my other preferences:

Big picture:

http://vulcan.wr.usgs.gov/Imgs/Jpg/Newberry/Images/Newberry87_aerial_big_obsidian_flow_10-87.jpg #lol

Particular thoughts:

Topicality – always a voting issue, sometimes a reverse voting issue. I really like analogies, especially if they relate to spreadsheets and accounting meetings. “This aff is off-limits, like using the 5A fund to renovate an off-site class 13 federal building,” that kind of thing.

Disads – I love a good CP & DA debate, although I have never voted on one.

Kritiks – Jeez, I really think debate is about the plan. Not that I don’t respect what you’re doing, because I really do, and not that I don’t value your participation in the community, because seriously I really appreciate what you’re doing, but I just think—well, not that I don’t think it requires lots of work, because I’m sure you have very good cards, and I really want to read them, but I just wonder if this is really what—not that I want to exclude you. No I really didn’t mean it that way. I’m so sorry. Ok. You’re right. I’ll vote for Kritiks.

Condo – Only if it comes with a balcony #lol. Seriously, though, I treat counterplans like Biggie would—I don’t chase ‘em, I replace ‘em. (I wrote this whole philosophy to use that one line #lol.)

Undispositionality – can’t kick it unless they straight turn it. I also reserve the right to resuscitate your counterplans after the 2AR. Advocating the permutation is ok if you do it with passion.

Evidence – You read it so I don’t have to.
  