
  Greta Stahl
MSU

Michigan State Debate – Junior
Familiarity with the Topic: I have not had huge exposure on this topic.
I worked at the Catholic camps for seven weeks last summer, and judged
two high school tournaments last December. If your case/negative
strategy revolves around complicated topic issues, please explain.
Topicality: I don’t think I have any strong leanings on this issue. I
generally default that it is a voting issue, but if the aff questions
this, the negative must, of course, respond. DO NOT respond to this by
saying that topicality is a voting issue for jurisdiction – that is not
an argument. Generally I don’t think that topicality is
exclusionary/bad for debate, but I certainly don’t foreclose the chance that I could
be persuaded otherwise at some point.
Disads: Pretty much a good idea. Affirmatives should have both
offense and defense in response. Negatives should make clear in the
block/2NR how the DA impact compares to the aff advantage impacts.
Counterplans: I tend to be neg leaning on most counterplan theory
issues (with the possible exception of conditionality, where I have no
strong leanings either way). This does not mean I cannot be persuaded that
a certain counterplan is bad, but the aff needs to have a compelling
reason why the counterplan either a) abused them in that particular
round, or b) why the precedent of that counterplan is bad. The aff also
needs to explain why voting aff is the only way to rectify this problem.
Please slow down or be extra clear on theory debates in order for the
sake of my flow. Permutations should include all of the plan and all or
part of the counterplan – perms that do things other than this are
probably illegit unless you have some innovative reason I have yet to hear.
Kritiks: In all honesty, this is not really my cup of tea when I
debate, but that certainly doesn’t mean that I won’t vote on them. But know
that I may not be as familiar with this literature as you are, and thus
your argument may require some explanation. I think negatives tend to
do a poor job explaining the “impact” of their arguments, especially in
relation to the affirmative, so be clear how the “impact” of your
kritik functions (post-fiat, pre-fiat, whatever) and how it inter-relates
with the aff. Negatives need to have good answers to the perm, and
affirmatives should have reasons why the perm is net beneficial.
Framework Questions: I default to being a policymaker unless told
otherwise. If this becomes an issue, both the affirmative and negative
should have defensive and offensive reasons why their framework for
evaluating debate is the best one. Assuming that I default to policy-making
when the aff/neg situates me elsewhere is a poor decision.
General Comments: Have fun. I don’t care if you’re
assertive/aggressive/etc. as long as you’re not rude. People that treat their partners
poorly in debate rounds (a sad trend I have observed in a lot of high
school rounds) should expect to have their points docked. Don’t waste
your cross-ex time getting evidence – do it during
  