
  I've coached policy and LD and have been judging on the circuit for the past few years with the Baltimore City College High School. In general I tend to think of myself as pretty tab with a few exceptions. 

Short: Speed is fine but don't use it as a strategic crutch. I like most kinds of arguments, but reserve the right to throw out an argument if it is absurdly stupid. I am not the judge to go 7 a prioris off in front of, but a plan debate, theory debate, philosophy debate, whatever is fine with me. 

Long

Theory: I default to competing interpretations but am willing to listen to reasonability. I will vote off of RVIs if they are developed. I prefer a substance debate to a theory debate, but you can get fine speaker points if you're good on theory. 

Policy (Or its reductionist status in LD) : I've coached it and taught it, I know it pretty well. Plans on some resolutions are abusive, on others they aren't. Either way I'll vote for the better debater if it becomes a theory debate. 

K's: I like the lit, I'm relatively well versed in it. That means that if you pronounce Foucaults name with a t I might make fun of you, but if you win the argument I'll vote for you. Please run the K's well, with a clearly defined framework. If you're good at the argument then I would run it in front of me, if not, keep it in the expando. 

Analytic Philosophy: It's fine, I'm not that aware of the trendy stuff (e.g. meta-ethics) so spend a little bit of time explaining how contractarianism interacts with the ac framework, etc., if you want to run it in front of me. 

Speaks: 27s are easy, 30s are hard. 

Miscellaneous: I hate stupid arguments. This means your turn nukes into nuke power for heg aff, or your give money saved by exit exams to africa aff, will probably lose in front of me. I reserve the right to call shenanigans on your evidence. I vote off the flow, but it won't take much to make me reject an awful argument. If you are a non-substantive shock value debater pref me low. 

I like debate when people do smart things in interesting ways.
  