
  Krysten Steed
I debated policy for 2 years in high school and LD for the final two years (Rosebud-Lott,TX), I now debate for Baylor University.

General Thoughts :
I like new arguments, that I’ve not heard in other tournaments. I don’t usually like the generic set up of some people’s debates, even though it is sometimes necessary. I like to be wow’ed, whether it be from a speech or someone’s cx or someone’s speaking talent. I like clash and like to hear an actual debate, not a bunch of drops that makes it harder to judge who wins, because they both dropped everything. Let’s see…I am also very laid back and understand completely if they are using policy or k’s. I guess that’s my general thoughs.

“Policy arguments” 
Policy arguments aren’t quite my deal, but I can keep up with them and can judge them. Make sure that you’re case is going with your policy arguments or if you are neg your ev. Is going with it. I’ve heard so many times that someone double turn themselves because they have ev. That doesn’t really go.

“Critical Arguments” 
Having an experience in LD I absolutely love “critical arguments.” I know most philosophers and I don’t need the, “Well I’m just going to use this, even though I know nothing of what I speak about” arguments. If you are running a crit aff or a crit arg, then please know something about it. I understand you read the sparknotes of the argument, but just because you say the same thing a million times doesn’t mean that it’s right. So make sure that your arguments are logical.

Topicality/Theory 
Topicality is kind of a big deal for me. I like to know that the case is topical. On that, make sure it solves also. I will not vote topicality, unless the other team tells me so. I am the judge not the debater, so please pick up on the top arguments when debating. 
 
I don’t mind cases without a plan or different theory arguments, just explain them out and make sure that they flow. Also…refer to the above paragraphs. I love clash. Clash please.

me 
Let’s see, I’m a rhetoric major who has done all sorts of debates, including LD and policy. I’m an advocate of the speaking, in least words, don’t suck at speaking. I enjoy doing strange things, that include but are not limited to, running at 3 in the morning, dreaming about debate and then writing an undefeated neg case, reading useless philosophy books, during high school my favorite was “On liberty” and “On rhetoric” right now I’m reading some Zizek. Yay!! Anyway, I guess that’s about all!  
  