
  I debated for four years at Eagan High School in Minnesota. I was the Minnesota State Champion in 2006 and qualified to the Tournament of Champions my senior year in 2007. I now coach at Eagan High School and judge frequently.

If you don't read anything else: Set up some kind of decision calculus for the round and explain how arguments function under that decision calculus.

More detailed version
Argumentation
I don't have any preference for any kind of argumentation or evaluative standard. My default position is that the resolution is a division of ground and not a policy action unless the resolution specifically states otherwise. 

I hate the "this is LD, not policy" argument without any further analysis as to how and why the activities are theoretically distinct so much that making it in front of me guarantees a debater no higher than 25 speaks. However, this also applies to making policy arguments without bridging these differences. For example, CPs absent plans don't make a lot of sense to me in the abstract.

Theory is used to check abuse, so winning on theory requires actual abuse present in the round. I am not opposed to theory being run as for strategic reasons if abuse is present, but if the violation isn't absurdly clear, then most of your final speech will have to be devoted to theory to win on theory. I will not vote for disclosure theory. 

I dislike K's that indict an assumption in the resolution as opposed to assumptions or ideas of the affirmative advocacy. I don't understand why the affirmative should lose because they were forced to affirm a resolution, regardless of how horrible that particular resolution might possibly be according to your K.

Strong evidenced claims > Strong analytical claims > weak evidenced claims > weak analytical claims

Presentation
If I can't flow you because you are simply going too fast, then I'll yell "slow" or "clear." If I can't flow you because you are horrifically unclear and mumbling, then I will not intervene to make you clearer. I give speaker points based on whether or not I think you should break. My average this year has been around a 27.5, but I have no problems giving you a 30 if I think that you will go deep in the bracket.
  