
  I am a senior at Northland Christian School!

I will default comparative worlds, but if you give me reasons for truth testing, that is fine.

Speed- You can go as fast as you want so long as you are clear. I will let you know if you are not clear, but slow down for tags, author names, or you 15 analytical turns. Be sure and clearly signpost too, or else I will have a much harder time following you. Also, please slow down for any dense philosophical framework.

Theory- I default to competing interps, but reasonability is fine if won. Please weigh between voters of fairness and education. You can run it whenever you want, but I will be happier if you run it only when there is some semblance of abuse. I probably tend to think theory is a reason to reject the argument, but reject the debater is also fine, just tell me what and why. If you run theory, make sure it’s a good debate. RVIs are fine.

Kritiks- I never read Ks and am not really fond of them. If you read one, be sure you understand it and can clearly explain it to me. If you don't clearly understand it, then do not read it.

Policy arguments- Yay! This is what I love, and what I ran. Any DA, CP, or plan will make me happy. Give me big impacts, but most of all please weigh those impacts. I will vote on most anything, but if you want to make me really happy and ensure that I understand everything you read, policy arguments are the best.

Extensions- Please give me clear extensions. If you don’t this will hurt your speaks. I will give 1AR leeway. If something is dropped then explain to me the implications of this dropped argument.

Framework- I will evaluate the round through the framework that the debaters justify. I will be happiest with util, but you can read anything. If it is extremely tricky or dense, be sure to slow down. I do not think a value/criterion is always necessary, just tell me how to evaluate the round. I would much rather hear a debate about the topic, than a debate about what framework is better.

Random things
1. Be nice. I will kill your speaks if you are not, and I will not want to vote for you. Be nice to me, and nice to your opponent throughout the whole round. Perceptual dominance is good, but do not use this as a means to be mean to your opponent. (This is a big deal to me!)
2. I will not vote for anything that is morally repugnant (i.e. genocide good, racism good, etc.). Be sure that your framework does not justify this also.
3. I will not be happy if I have to vote on an a priori or a skep trigger. If they exist in your opponent’s case, just answer them! 
4. Don’t be abusive, don’t steal prep, don’t hide a priories, don’t give a different copy of your case to your opponent, and be honest about your arguments.


Have fun and enjoy the debate! Please ask any other questions before the round.
  