
  Background: Debated policy four years for a now-defunct team in Central MN. Coached for two years at Wayzata High School several years ago. Have been judging for almost a decade. Started coaching Lincoln-Douglas at Edina High School this year. 

LINCOLN-DOUGLAS

I prefer contention-level debate over framework, but I like a good framework debate as well. I like it all, really. Debate is nice.

Please signpost. Extend and cross-apply cleanly.

Speed is fine. Sitting is fine. Standing is fine. Hats will be judged on a hat-by-hat basis.

Be nice. Be strong. Be wise. Be [insert name of future corporate sponsor of profile].

I have an aversion to patchouli. Please don't wear patchouli.




POLICY



I have an aversion to patchouli. Please don't wear patchouli.



I default to policymaking where I can.


Critical arguments: I used to be (and occasionally still am) a crank about kritiks, but I have no issue voting on them. I can appreciate what's happening in the debate without involving my own preference for hardcore policy debate showdowns. It's up to the students to tell me what matters because debate isn't about me. Don't cater to what arguments you think I'll like because what I REALLY like is hearing someone who knows what they're talking about so I can know what they're talking about, too.


The arguments have to be good. I can wrap my head around things I haven't heard before, but I don't give points for creativity. There needs to be solid understanding and argumentation of a position regardless of the derring-do behind it. For instance, have an alt or a damn good reason for not having an alt. 'Do nothing' is weak sauce and you should know that. Don't throw out the term 'moral obligation' like that matters to anyone anywhere.

Framework: This ties into my paradigm. I don't need a framework debate if nobody's interested in starting one. Voting solely on a framework debate feels like everyone just wasted their time, but again, I'll vote on what debaters want me to vote on.

Topicality: I will vote on T, but it has to be exceptionally well done. Tell me what cases would or would not be allowed under your interpretation. Act as if this round would add clarity and/or change for future rounds if you won on topicality. Your topicality should be the Muhammad Ali of topicality arguments. You shouldn't collapse to T if you can't meet that standard. If you come at the king, you best not miss.

Dis-ads: I love, love, love really well-done, line-by-line, Armageddon-esque dis-ad debates. Blow up the world on this if you can.


Speed: I flow with pen and paper, but I can handle speed. (Edit: I have acquired a laptop and flow on it. It rocks! Leaving this here in case I forget that I know how to flow on paper.) If you're not clear, I will tell you so. I will only say something twice, after which point I will drop my pen. I shouldn't have to tell someone in a public speaking activity that I literally cannot understand the words coming out of their mouth. You are better than that.

Manners: I do not mind a little swagger. You debate and therefore you're better than most people. But everyone else in the room is also debating and courtesy is just freakin' easier. Don't ask about how much prep the other team has left. That's not your concern. Let your partner answer/ask questions during their cross-x. Don't be weird and bossy toward your partner. It's like watching an old married couple carry on, where I feel uncomfortable and just want y'all to call it quits already.


The only pet peeve I have is debaters getting in my personal space. Don't read my flows over my shoulder or set up camp right next to me. It feels a little pointless to tell teenagers 'Don't make it weird,' but it's worth a shot.

Swearing: I'm not into it, but sometimes words slip out.


Points: I use a range of 25-30. 25 is for the worst of the worst, so relax. I heavily favor the 26-28 range. Points are based on style, argumentation, clarity and, admittedly, the X factor of charisma. Does charisma matter? Ask Mick Jagger. Or better yet, ask someone who's made out with Mick Jagger.


Tech: I don't include flashing in prep time, but hurry up about it. I flow with pen and paper, so be honest with me about whether I'll need a new sheet of paper for something. If you're doing an extensive, or even just a flow-worthy, overview or underview, tell me to get another sheet of paper when you give me the roadmap.
  