
  Cedar Rapids Washington 07'
Iowa 11'
Four years policy debate in high-school.
Senior college debater.

Most Important: Do whatever it is you want to do/gives you the best shot at winning.

T: Debate it like a DA. Win your DA, win the Debate. I will probably err Aff on T debates (the impact to your DA might be tough to win). I have yet to judge the 2010 high-school topic.

DA's: like 'em

Counterplans: I generally err neg on theory, but I will do my best to judge theory objectively. PICs, Conditionality, Agent Counterplans, and 2NC Counterplans, are all probably good, and the more the merrier.

Critiques: Went for them fairly regularly in high-school, not so much in College. I will probably at least be somewhat familiar with the argument, but if it's something particularly unusual it might be in your best interest to explain it more thoroughly. Critiques do not need alts, but that's not to say alts are a bad thing. Reject/Vote Neg alts are often pretty dumb. Aff's should probably have topical plans.

Performance: Go for it, but please please please try and be responsive to the other team's arguments. I'm not saying you have to do the line by line, I just think that a lot of performance teams could be especially devastating if they took the time to specifically answer other team's arguments or explain why they're stupid/don't apply, because they probably won't.

Miscellaneous: Try and be aggressive (but still smart) in C/X without going too far. I think it's the most important part of the debate, don't waste it asking dumb questions to fill up time. Jokes are sweet. Be funny, but only if you're comfortable with it. If you're going to be an asshole, at least try and be a funny asshole. Don't be afraid to poke fun at the other team, some playful smack-talk can be fun for everyone. Don't steal prep. A few smart analytic arguments can often go a lot further than just reading cards. I will try and be harsh on new args in the rebuttals, but telling me which ones are new and impacting that will probably aid you greatly. I try not to, but I will probably give a lot of non-verbals, if something is blatantly new or you're getting too repetitive I may just stop writing. Basically, do whatever you want and have fun. After viewing a sign that said "Win the Judge" a very smart man once told me "Yeah...but also important...'Beat the Team.'"

So, I think that's it.
  