
  Anna Stratton
2006-2010 Lake City Debate, Currently a ACS Chemistry Major at Mississippi State University. Haven't seen much debate since High School.

 Couple of things to start off. I haven't had a lot of speed reading in college. In fact, I live in a place where slow southern accents have affected my hearing. If you do the supersonic speed reading, make sure you are clear. I would actually appreciate it if you read just a little slower for me, but I get that I am a minority here, so I'll try to keep up.

However, understand that my flow is law, and it is all I have to go on when I go to see who did the best.To help me help you, help me flow. Give me a proper road map and if not clearly tell me where you are going when you go. Dropped arguments are dropped arguments and will not be considered if they are dropped one speech and brought up in the next (except in the Neg block.I have a tenancy to flow them that as a single speech. even so, I'd appreciate the words "extend this for my partners speech.")

Also, I need everyone to be civil. There is nothing I hate more than people talking over other people when debating. During Cross Examination, keep answers concise, and try not to be horrid about questioning.

I like the idea of Debate as a learning experience. Policy in particular is a way for us to experience the world of politics. I will be more inclined to vote for you if you have proper evidence THAT YOU CAN EXPLAIN. Tell me logically why your argument does work while your opponent doesn't. You are more likely to get my vote if you can explain things than if you have a stack of cards with very little analytical arguments. More cards doesn't mean you win, they are just tools to help.

Here are a few areas you might want to know about.

Kritiks: If you are going to run them put them in clear language. Explain it to me. Tell me why I should vote on this. I am more likely to vote on them if they are put in layman's terms than I am if they are pushed up with policy jargon. I would also prefer if it was something done uniquely in this debate, not some genereic K that is used. I am also less likely to vote on a K if there is more of a reason to vote on a Disad or other traditional debate issue.

Disads/Counterplans: I am more of a fan of Diads than I am of counterplans but I will vote for a counterplan if the explanation on why it works better is more stable than the plan is.

Topicality/Theory: I like Topicality and Theory arguments but not when the whole debate comes down to that. Unless the aff is blatantly out of line, you should be able to poke more holes in the aff's plan.
  