
  I did policy debate for almost 4 years at McDowell High School in Erie, PA, and I’m currently studying business at the University of Pennsylvania.
Note: I am only one year out of high school and have only judged this topic a couple times earlier in the year, so take that as you will. Just have common sense, explain things to me, and don’t spew acronyms that you assume I’ll know because I probably won’t.
In short, debate well, and make good, compelling arguments. I’m pretty cool with whatever you want to run, but at the end of the day, I want you to frame the round and boil it down to tell me how I should vote and why.
Arguments:Topicality—I am fine with it and am willing to vote on it. I tend to err towards reasonability for the aff. Don’t just say that the aff violates the interpretation. To win, the neg needs to go in-depth and frame the world of their interpretation and impact the standards.Disads —all good. I like specific links and impact calc. Case turns are a plus too.Counterplans—fair game. I’m not the biggest fan of consult CPs. Make sure it’s competitive, and tell me what the CP does because sometimes I’ll go through rounds and still have no clue what the CP was.Kritiks—fine. I wasn’t the biggest K debater in high school, but I am fine with listening to them and will vote on them. I am not very familiar with the literature, so explain it to me. I think with Ks, it’s really important to explain and frame the world of the alternative and why that matters in the end.Theory—it’s not favorite thing about a debate, but it’s a fine argument. I default to “reject argument, not the team” unless you can prove to me otherwise. If you want me to vote on theory, you need to spend a lot of time on it and impact it well.
Other:Speaking—completely fine with speed. Just be clear (especially on tags), and project your voice. If I can’t understand you, then I just won’t flow the arguments.Cross-X—Open cross-x is fine. Cross-X can have a big impact on your speaker points for the better or worse, so ask good questions, know your shit, and don’t be a jerk. I don’t like rude people.Prep time—don’t steal prep time. Simple as that. Timer stops as soon as flash drive leaves your computer.Cards/Evidence—I try to call for evidence as little as possible. I want you to explain and point out specific pieces of evidence yourself, even quoting specific lines. If you guys are just going back and forth saying one card is better than the other but not proving why, that doesn’t help me.
I also appreciate humor and jokes, but don’t be a try-hard. Debate is fun, so take it easy, be smart, and enjoy it. Make it easy for me at the end of the round, and tell me what I need to know and how I should evaluate it.
  