
  I debated for four years at Lexington High School, qualifying to the ToC my junior and senior years. I also attended NCFL my sophomore, junior, and senior years, advancing to outrounds each year. I attended Northeastern University where I majored in Economics, International Relations, and History. I currently attend Cornell Law School.

I judge fairly infrequently, around 1 tournament per year. Keep in mind that my flowing is a bit out of practice. I can handle speed (although I'd appreciate forewarning, as I may decide to flow on my laptop) but will yell CLEAR if I am unable to understand you - this means SLOW DOWN and ENUNCIATE. I may yell LOUDER if I cannot hear you, this is not an indication that you need to slow down.

In terms of voting, I will adopt the paradigm that emerges victorious in the round and will vote on whatever you give me reason to. This includes theory, RVIs, performance, a prioris, or anything else. Reason does not mean you read a card by X famous person, I do not vote on fallacious appeals to authority. If, however, your card has a warrant - that is sufficient. If I doubt your card has a warrant, I will assume it does if the other debater does not answer it completely. If your opponent does answer it, I may call for your evidence at the end of the round to verify it indeed says what you say it does. I won't intervene on this, but if you claim a warrant that isn't there, your speaks will be adjusted accordingly.

If you want perfect speaker points from me, or just to appeal to my vision of debate (which isn't enough to make me vote for you per se) I prefer articulate debate with strategic coverage of the flow. Good strategic choices (extending part of your framework so you don't need to address your opponent's turns) that work will make me very happy.

There are two caveats to my tabula rasa judging paradigm:
If you are rude in any way to me, or the other debater, I will nuke your speaks.If you cheat on timing (prep, or my clock says your 1AR was finished and you continue speaking for longer than 10 seconds) I will not only nuke your speaks, but notify you and the other debater that you went over time. If the other debater gives me a theoretical reason to vote on the unfairness of such a violation, I will do so. This shouldn't be a cause for concern, I start my timer after you start speaking (after a roadmap too, if you'd like to give a brief one).
If you have any other questions, feel free to ask me.
  