
  I've recently decided that my old paradigm sucks - so in the interim please see Kathryn Rubino's:

General
I dislike intervening in debate rounds. I would much rather apply the
criteria the debaters supply and work things out that way. As a result
the final rebuttals should provide me with a clean story and a
weighing mechanism. If only one side provides this I will default to
their standards. If neither side does this, I'll use my own opinions
and evaluations of the round.

Simply put the debate is about impacts- weigh them, their likelihood
and magnitude and we're doing fine.

I think it is the debater's responsibility to explain the analysis of
their cards, particularly on complex positions. However, I recognize
the time constraints in a round and will read cards that receive a
prominent place in rebuttals. But I do not like to read piles of cards
and being forced to apply my analysis to them. As a side note, I
rarely flow author names so don't just extend the author's name- also
be clear to which argument the card applies to.

I'll listen to whatever people want to say- but you should probably
know my dispositions ahead of time. Be warned however, I have voted
against my preferences many times and anticipate doing it again in the
future.

Kritiks
I like kritik/advocacy debate. That being said, I do not have a
knee-jerk reaction when I hear them. Part of what makes kritiks
interesting is the variety and depth of responses available. To get my
vote here I generally need a clear story on the link and implication
levels.

I enjoy framework debates- debating about debate is fun- and as a
bonus I don't think there are any right or wrong answers- just
arguments that can be made.

Topicality
I rejoice the return of topicality! And I have no problem voting on
topicality, even if I don't agree with a particular interpretation,
but I do think a T story needs to be clear and technically proficient.

Disads
DAs are fine, and the more case specific the better. I think internal
consistency is key here, and as a result I'm very sympathetic to
arguments that poke holes in that. And the older I get the more I
dislike politics disads- they just don't make sense to me- more of a
hodgepodge of cards then an argument. I think the second rebuttals
need to be extra clear on the story here so I know exactly what I'm
voting for.

Counterplans/Theory
I don't mind listening to PICs or other interesting CPs, and I often
feel they're good way to test the validity of a plan. However, I am
open to theoretical debate here and I'm willing to vote on it.


I will vote on the easy way out of a round- I don't try to divine the
ultimate truth of what the debaters are saying. I'm just adjudicating
a game- a fun game that can teach stuff and be pretty sweet- but still
a game. So enjoy your round, do your job and I will too.
  