
  Debated for 4 years with Tarun Suresh (Brophy SS)
Debated for Wake Forest for a year, been out of the activity for a year now.
TL;DR
Do whatever you want, I'm cool with pretty much anything.


Style/Theory
I will vote on dropped theory. Some judges seem to really dislike in depth theory, but if you develop your arguments well and logically I will take it seriously. Dont read straight down your blocks, slow down so I can actually catch what you're saying. If your theory is blippy and I can't hear anything but buzzwords I simply won't be able to flow it. 
Tech>truth most of the time. If you make an argument I'll evaulate it (don't mistake that for meaning you don't have to have warrants -- if you make an argument with no warrants you won't win on it).

K's
I spent most if not all of my high school career debating kritiks and have done a fair amount of outside reading on the literature. Feel free to run what you want to run -- as long as you explain your kritik in round and don't solely rely on the card/tag to carry you you'll be fine. 
Against K affs don't assume they get a perm. Make sure you win a link. Rest is standard
If you're running a K aff it's in your best interest to actually solve something (or have a clear method defined in 1ac/cross ex that you're going to stick with), otherwise I think framework is a lot stronger.
Framework
I think this is one of the most 50-50 arguments in debate. I'll vote for standard framework (theory/education) as long as you create real impacts out of those standards. On the aff I like your specific answers that relate back to your aff -- most of my high school career was as a 2a so I can apreciate a good 2ac to framework.

DA/CP
Don't assume I know all of the literature around the topic this year in terms of important disad topics, but dont let that discourage you from reading your arguments. If you're good at the politics disad read it, but if you don't know the scenario well/it's apparant that you haven't got the evidence/time put in to prove that your argument is valid, I won't have a lot of time for it. 
If you want to read two 3 plank counterplans do it, just be ready on the theory level. I like abusive counterplans that can defend themselves. 
If you can link a DA to a K aff do it, just be sure to get a substantial link.


Speaker Points
I don't have a designated method for speaks yet so I'll be relatively lenient. In general be confident and you're good. I like puns. 
  