
  somethings about me: I have judged both Novice and JV LD debates. I am a business owner and entrepreneur who pays attention to details.

General Conduct - Please be respectful to your opponents and be wary of the pronouns they’d prefer to use. You can be an effective speaker without raising your voice unnecessarily or being aggressive to your opponent.

Delivery - Please pace yourself at your comfort level. It’s a balance between able to get all your points within the time frame and rushing it through so none of your points comes across to me. Speak loud and don’t be a robot just reading from your written notes in a monotone.

Arguments - Content-wise, I am indifferent: do what you do best. I am reasonably familiar with disad-counterplan strategies and most varieties of critical argument. I can also be persuaded on case turns. However, I do have some basic standards for what constitutes a complete and persuasive argument.

First, the most essential part that I pay attention to is the value structure which needs a clear value Criterion which attempts to demonstrate the resolution

Second, an argument must include a claim, a warrant, and an impact. If one of these things is missing, or gets developed very late in the debate, it will be very difficult to persuade me to vote for that particular argument.

Third, argument includes ethos (credibility), pathos (emotional appeal), and logos (logic/structure). If debaters tell me that I ought to prefer pathos over logos or visa versa (or any other ‘role of the judge’), I will evaluate the debate in the manner that has been laid out for me. Ethos is a different matter and will be reflected in your speaker points, but can also affect how I evaluate arguments.

Fourth, evidence and qualifications are important: simply explaining your argument and why it is right is not sufficient, rather you must contest the quality and content of evidence or argument your opponents are making.

Finally, all arguments must pass the make sense test or I will not vote for them.
  