
  Dylan Sutton
 
i graduated in 04 and have coached/judged since then, typically something like 20 tournaments/year about half on the national circuit and the rest in Nebraska. At the moment i work for Westside.

it's a pet peeve of mine that this thing gets ignored. so like, don't.

what should i run?
generally, what you are good at.
1. i coach teams that run Ks. i ran all sorts of stuff. i vote for all sorts of stuff. the rest of what i ask in terms of what the round looks like is more important than whether you go for condo, heg, or cap.
2. don't contradict yourself. yes, the positions are conditional. no, that doesn't mean their inherent contradictions aren't relevant after you stop talking about them. i'll drop you.
3. i don't much like rules. but if you go for theory, go for it with the same integrity you would anything else. you can't win much in 1 minute.
4. i would encourage you to have fun. i won't say a lot during the round, but i'll like you a lot more if the round is creative and/or comical.

how should i debate?
generally, err on the side of depth over tech
1. i'm almost certainly not going to call any cards. so if you have a really good one you best make sure i know the argument inside it, because the name of your author doesn't answer very many arguments. (similarly, your tag probably doesn't contain the warrant to the card's claim. it also probably doesn't contextualize the argument to the round that is happening. so say more than the tag too).
2. you can beat a whole position with one defensive argument if it's good
3. i generally find permutations on Ks to be a place where the link is contested without being discussed much. Should you decide to go for a perm against a K, you should explain it's ability to redress the link arguments being made (or it won't be worth your time).
4. i would encourage you to have fun. i won't say a lot during the round, but i'll like you a lot more if the round is creative and/or comical.
5. i generally don't take prep time for flashing but i am getting pretty frustrated with "tech problems" causing massive delays. If you create a problem, you subject yourself to my solutions.
  