
  Melissa SvobodaLa Reina High School

Overview:

I have been involved in forensics since 2012. I have judged at various tournaments throughout California. I primarily judge Open/Varsity LD but have judged JV//Novice. I have also judged Open/Novice PF, Parli, Congress and Novice Policy. I understand the difference between traditional and progressive debate. In regards to IE events, I have also judged Impromptu, Expos, HI, OO, Extemp, OI, and OA. I prefer not to judge DI. 
IE/CONGRESS
IE/Congress Speaks:Your passion, energy and persuasion must be evident in order for you to be ranked higher than others. Eye contact and my ability to hear you is critical. Your speech must be memorized but if you forget thoughtful pauses are preferred over "um", "like," "um," "yah," "um." This is the time for you to spotlight your talent so let it show! If I am judging you in Congress, it is critical you are organized and your speech demonstrates your understanding of the topic. Please use Senators names when discussing their points that you agree or disagree with. I don't mind if you walk down the aisle but if you do remember that it may require you to walk back up to the front of the room making you lose valuable time and your back will be turned to me which is not a plus for you.
Other:I try to be as fair as possible.
DEBATE
Policy Creep:

Progressive LD debate definitely has policy creep. T’, K’s, and Disad’s I am okay with as long as you explain what you are doing. Don’t assume I know what you are trying to do.

Debate Speed/Speaks:

I am okay with you talking fast (spreading) and will call out CLEAR or SLOW DOWN if I need you to. However, if you are going to talk fast you must speak up. If I can’t hear you I will let you know and will say LOUDER. Regardless, please slow down for the taglines. If I am judging you at a traditional tournament with NSDA/CHSSA rules having a persuasive speaking style will be important for you in order to get high speaker points.

I generally give within the 28 range. If you are rude, your speaks will suffer and you may lose the round. This also applies if during your opponent’s speech you crush water bottles, hit your pen on the desk, move your chair back and forth so it screeches, pace back and forth behind your opponent and other distracting habits. This is a debate and I want to hear your opponent’s case just as much as I want to hear yours so don’t deter me from hearing their case.

Cross-ex: Answer the questions posed. Seriously, answer the questions already and use that time to reinforce your case. 
Prep time:
I am fine with flex prep and you will need to tell me how many minutes of prep time. Generally 3-4 minutes in LD rounds.
Time:Please time yourself and opponent. I can't flow the round if I am taking time out to time you.

Intervention:

I generally will not intervene. It is your responsibility to tell me if someone has broken a rule.

RFD:

Tell me why you should win. Voters! Impacts are very important to me. Framework debaters will likely get my vote.

Other:

I try to be as fair as possible. 

From my perspective, debate is educational and you should learn something from every round, I know I do, so thank you!


  