
  

I am one of the few judges that prefers the communication aspects of debate over the line-by-line. Overall I enjoy a big picture debate with general reasons why the resolution is true or false. These reasons should translate no only between the two of you but also with others who may be watching the round.
Value/Criterion: These are a lot less important to me than the contentions; while I feel having a value and criterion are necessary, I think the majority of your speech time should be explaining why your arguments achieve them. I am fine with you agreeing to a criterion as long explain why you still should win the round.
Speed: GO SLOW! Slow for me is probably slower than slow for you. I prefer a MUCH more conversational debate--debate that can translate into real-life application. I am not going to base my decision on who makes more arguments so you are better fit, with me as a judge, to logically explain arguments that are reasonable. Also, err on the side of over explanation.
Evidence: I am predominately used to performing in non-evidence debate (parli) so don’t rely so much on evidence - you should explain its application to your arguments.

Attitude: Don’t have one; I will treat you with respect and I feel that you should treat your opponent and me with respect as well. No ad-homs or rudeness, please.

Argument Preference: I prefer reasonable/intuitive/ “stock” arguments as to why the resolution is true or false.

Weighing: I definitely tend to believe probable arguments over arguments with large magnitude. In your rebuttals I hope that you will isolate, number and weigh voting issues in a very BIG picture manner. Please, no new arguments in the last rebuttals - they will make me sad and I will dock your speaks.

T/procedurals/K/counterplans -Word to the wise; I am not “cool” don’t run these in front of me. As a caveat if there is an egregious violation then topicality may be permitted - but it would have to be as clear as the affirmative talking about eminent domain in China on the felons resolution.
  