
  I am a fifth year high school coach who qualified my first LDer to NFL Nationals last season. I am a former student competitor in LD, and I truly love this event. I believe that LD is a unique event in that it allows for exploration of questions of value, rather than relying solely on matters of concrete fact. I love a good philosophical debate, and all the better if you are able to warrant this debate with empirical support.

My judging philosophy is pretty straightforward; I am fairly traditional in my approach to LD. I believe strongly that, without exception, the Value/Criterion debate is the paramount voting issue in any LD round, and it must be sufficiently warranted and clearly explained, relying on minimal internal links in order to support or negate the resolution.

I insist on organized presentation, and I believe that good roadmapping and especially DIRECT CLASH are central to a quality debate. I will flow arguments throughout the round, but if I'm not told where to apply them, I may well disregard them.

While I appreciate quality evidence used to support claims, I have no use for evidence that "stands alone." Explain what it means, and apply it logically. I know how to read, and I probably understand it, but I want to know with certainty that you do, too, and I want to see your own reasoning skills when you link cards to arguments.

I have no objection to speed, if executed well, but I generally feel that spreading tends to create a dynamic of quantity over quality, and I don't believe LD is the forum for that strategy. If you can make ten quality arguments, by all means do, but if doing so prevents individual arguments from being adequately developed, you will have a tough time persuading me.

I have been known to vote on topicality, but it's rare that I am persuaded by a fringe definition that obfuscates the language of a resolution. If you want to get into a terms debate, please be sure that it's worth the time invested.

I find framework debates interesting, and often useful, but I am alert to abusive strategies, and I don't think I've ever been persuaded by one.

I could go on, but the reality is that I enjoy a good debate, and I'm flexible on most strategies. Do what you do best. Finally, be nice. Arrogance and hostility are the most efficient ways to alienate me. Respect the activity, respect one another, and have fun.
  