
  About Me: My name is Bobby Swetz. I debated at Homewood Flossmoor High School. I mainly ran critical arguments such as Deleuze. I received 4 bids to the TOC. I have debated for two different colleges. At Southern Illinois, I debated solely in parli. I was in late elims of every major national tournament, I won the largest parli tournament, and was in finals of the NPDA Nationals. I coached and judged at the 2016 TOC. At KCKCC, I returned to debating in policy.

China Topic: I have been coaching a bit this season so I have a decent knowledge of the topic. With that being said, I would still avoid hyper-specific acronyms.

Overall Thesis: Debate is what you make of it. As with every judge in policy, I have obvious pre-dispositions. Outside of any inevitable bias, I will attempt to adjudicate the debate to the best of my ability as a non-partisan educator. You may feel free to read whatever arguments you want, whether it be T QPQ or Bataille or Dedev.

Policy Debate: The affirmative case, I believe, is the most important point of any debate. Either team can win or lose on the case debate. If the negative does not sufficiently answer the case, it is an easy aff ballot because they can simply weigh their case against the negative's disads. Topicality, in a policy lens where there is no critique of topicality, is always a voting issue. Theory, unless it is something like condo, is almost always a reason to reject the argument, and not the team. I can be persuaded otherwise though.

Critical Debate: The question of education and pedagogy is perhaps the most important consideration for kritikal debate. Whether you're reading a critique, or you are reading framework against an non-topical affirmative, the framework and lens through which you may view the debate should be the focal point of said debate.

Afterword: This philosophy has been intentionally vague. I really do not care what you read. I, just as you are, am still learning and want to be taught just as much as I want to teach you.
28730
mgreenstein@glenbrook225.org
  