
  I am a third year debater at Little Rock Central.

My decision in a round will usually come down to who wins the impact debate. Aside from typical impacts (ie nuke war, terrorism), arguments like theory and framework should also be impacted out so I honestly don't see a way you can win my ballot without winning the impact debate. If there is such a way however, I am tabula rasa and will be willing to listen.

JUST BECAUSE I'M A STICKLER FOR THE IMPACT DEBATE DOES NOT MEAN I DON'T EVALUATE OTHER PARTS OF THE FLOW CLOSELY.

Otherwise, I really feel that any preferences I may have should NOT change the way you debate. Me sitting in the back of the room listening to your arguments should not change what you normally do in rounds. I respect the unique way that each and every person approaches a round and debates in one.

There is one disclaimer, however. I don't have much of an ear for K jargon. So when you're reading your K, please avoid excess K jargon. Again, you will probably win my ballot if you win the impact debate on the kritik. Refer to my all caps line above though. So basically, I'd appreciate a well-articulated K debate and some nice role of the ballot arguments would be pleasant.

Oh, I also do have a soft spot for topicality but that also means I like a good topicality debate and want it well-argued if you want me to vote for you on it.

In terms of counterplans, I'm not much of a CP debater and have rarely gone for them in the 2NR, but I am personally very intrigued by the nuances of a good counterplan debate so if that's what I'm going to get, then bring it on. In terms of theory against the counterplan, I err towards the negative a bit but don't be discouraged to read it whatsoever. I definitely think it's a valid route to refuting a counterplan.

Disads are totally fine... the impacts are a big deal here.

In terms of theory, I will do my best to evaluate these arguments with a medium threshold but will probably end up erring towards a higher threshold. Like I mentioned earlier, impact it out if it's the argument you want to go for - same for framework.

Any other specific questions can be asked in round.
  