
  I debated LD for three years at Bronx Science, graduated in 2011, and now attend Cornell University where I've started policy. In high school, I debated locally, regionally (NE,) and semi-nationally. 

I will be receptive to pretty much any argument you run. Note that if it heavily deals with philosophy or K material, you'll have to slow down to make sure I understand your argument. On speed, please be clear. If you think that the speed at which you're reading might detract your clarity, then slow down. Please leave some form or indication of a break/pause in between individual arguments, including those in the framework (theory spikes, pre-standard, warrants for standard, etc.) Other than that, I'm generally fine with speed. I'll yell clear twice, and if I hear no improvement, I'll begin to dock your speaks. 
I may call for evidence afterwards. 

Things I like
Clear extensions. Tell me why this particular argument is important in the round, whether it is a voting issue or it's a key link to an impact.

Analytical arguments. I like good evidence too, but if you're able to make a compelling, logical argument on your feet in the rebuttal, rather than rely on all cards for the entire debate, I will definitely reward you with high speaks. If you can do this with speed, I will be even more impressed.

Exposing bad evidence. Read your opponent's evidence, and if there's no warrant or the argument your opponent is making isn't being supported by the card, then call them out on it. 

Aggressive CX. This doesn't mean be rude or to start yelling, but certainly don't be passive. Cross-ex is the perfect time for me to compare both debaters side-by-side, for me to see who’s smart and who’s not. 

Theory
I will vote on theory (or reject an argument, however you articulate it) so long as you make a strong case for why the other debater is being abusive. It doesn't have to be in a formal shell either. I'm equally receptive to strong analytical responses to theory, not just a counter-interpretation. 

Speaks
My range is 26-30, usually. I’m willing to give out multiple 30s, but you must earn it. I’ll reward you with high speaks if you do the things that I prefer, mentioned above. 
  