
  I debated LD for four years at Lynbrook High School and got a bid. I taught at CDI and SNFI, and I'm currently a student at Stanford University. 

In general, I'll vote off of any argument as long as its well-explained and well-impacted throughout the course of the round. Framing the round and crystallization are super useful. I reserve the right to gut-check any arguments that are just blatantly false or are completely devoid of a warrant. You need to warrant your arguments and tell me why they matter. Signpost. And WEIGH please, it's so hard to evaluate rounds if you don't.

I can flow speed fine, but be sure to be clear and loud. I'll yell "clear" or "loud" during a round if this becomes a problem, but it's really up to you to just become clearer or louder. 

On theory: I default to competing interps and drop the argument absent any argument otherwise. I will vote off of RVIs if they're well-warranted. Theory should only be run if there's actual abuse in the round. I'm very annoyed with frivolous theory and may gutcheck against it. If you're going for drop the debater, please have that in your initial speech AND extend it in later speeches.

On K's: I can understand and flow K's, but I didn't read much critical literature in high school, so you'll probably need to slow down and explain the warrants/implications a little more clearly.

On spikes and skep/presumption triggers: These are arguments too and should have a claim, warrant, and impact in the initial speech, not extrapolated in later speeches. If I didn't flow or hear it in the first speech, I'll have a really high threshold for voting on it later.

If you doubt the validity of your opponent's evidence, ask me look at it after round just in case. I'll also reserve the right to call evidence after round to ensure that it says what it's actually supposed to.

As for speaks, I assign speaks based on: strategy, clarity in round (don't muddle the debate), politeness, and how interesting the round was to me.
Perceptual dominance is pretty cool too. I think that speaks are really inflated, so I'll try averaging a 27.5. 

Be nice to people in round! It makes debate fun, and you'll get better speaks.

Feel free to ask me any questions before round, and have fun!
  