
  Alex Tavlian
Clovis West High School
LD

1. Argumentation: When it comes to cases, I like to see a person who can tow the line of offense. I like to see strategies of cases, but giving enough ground is extremely important. If there is one thing you need to achieve as a debater, it's to give me clear signs that your standard/framework has been given sufficient background by your arguments. QED, give me strong impacts and links to those things. For me, if you can make a hard hit to a link or impact, you could easily have taken out the entire case of your opponent. Lastly, when arguing, NEVER jump to conclusions or assume. It gives your opponent a win and makes me angry.
2. Speed: I'm not a cop, but I've got a limit. Spreading is ridiculous. If you want to spread go to policy, this is LD. I want to not only understand what your saying for flowing and evaluation purposes, but it also questions your case's strength (Quality over Quantity). If you have four strong arguments with decent length cards you'll be able to hold your ground stronger than a debater with five weak and two strong args. Slow it down and it'll still be a great debate.
3. Speaks: What I see during the debate goes to your speaks, enough said. I grade from 25-30. If you are absolutely, down right awful then I may consider a lower score but don't bet your life on it.
4. Theory: I want to see appropriate theory args, it's useless if you don't prepare them properly for a specific round. RVIs aren't my bag. You can run them and I'll listen but I can't guarantee that it will change anything I'm thinking at that time. I won't knock you down for them unless its terrible.
5. Crystalize for God Sakes. You need to end the debate strong, it'll be the freshest thing on my mind. Keep your voters organized with the consistency in strength. Despite what the flow says and what I may write on my critique, your lack of emphasizing specific wins in the round could cost you it.
6. Other Args: Totally down for Off Cases, and even Kritiks. However, if you run a Kritik you need to have a great explanation of the Kritik.
  