
  My name is Stephen Taylor. I debated at Airline High School out of Louisiana. Competed T.O.C. circuit. Qualled NFL's twice. That's about it.

This is my second year to judge policy debate, I will vote for whoever wins the debate in my opinion. I will vote on any argument, just win it. Here are my viewpoints on different arguments. When reading fast, make sure I can distinguish between the tag and the card. Speed is not an issue, go for it.

Framework:
I tend to err for the affirmative framework set up in 1AC, I default policy maker if you don't sway me any other way but if you win framework you can have your Kritik, just make sure to explain the link well. I will also vote for the Kritik if the aff gives me no reason to reject it. The latter under the circumstance that their is no framework given by either sides. Give me some impacts also. I want a reason to vote.

Topicality:
I have voted Neg on topicality in the past and it's not rare to convince me into it again. I believe however, that if the negative goes for topicality, they should have a decent in round abuse story. I find it almost impossible to vote an affirmative team down on potential abuse alone. Standards are incredibly important to me, so argue them well if you want to win a T debate. Love counter interps and perms to interps. Makes it more specific and a better arg. If you drop an RVI I will vote for it because I want to be able to tell people I saw you lose on an RVI. The previous sentence should help you know that I just want you to pay attention in every argument rather than reading generic blocks.

Counterplans:
Don't have a preference on Counterplans. Ran plenty of them, I don' believe PICS are bad unless you can prove abuse. I'm all for conditionality unless you have a good abuse story. Usually Cond cp and k is about the lowest I will grant abuse but you better SELL it hard. See more on theory... Love states and consult and adv cp's.

Kritiks:
Make sure to outline an understandable link scenario. The k CAN be one of my favorite args if ran correctly. Make sure you win the link. KNOW WHAT YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT! I only stuck with one K so you need to sell me a very viable link, impact, and alt coming out of the 1N. Don't save it. I can handle saving specs til the block. Give me some very specific links also. I love impact in K round and the alt is either my favorite or I hate it. Please do work and don't waste my time with it. I hate it when people say "ethics bad" and don't realize why I voted against the K for that line specifically...

Theory:
Not going to make you slow down too much just enough so I can get your reasons behind your generic tags. Reasons mean more to me than tags. You probably won't win me on generic blocks you pull from your schools epic backfile. Make it new, make your own, and make it specific. 3 or more cond advocacies, Cond cp and k. Basically Why x is bad in y situation. Not condi bad and that's it. I will vote theory. I love an awesome theory debate. Give me good impact calc on it with some counter interps and I'll be perfectly fine. Usually whoever does the most work will win it but that has been changed before.

Other generic mess:
I also really enjoy case debates. I am NOT stock issues but I feel as if the 1ac reads just so neg can get link and squander it on meaningless disads they've ran every round. I am new to this topic. So I would actually enjoy to hear about it. Case is a good way to win for both sides. Neg to attack and Aff to revert back to. It's the foundation of the debate and I hate to see it be forgotten about. That being said. If you have TERRIBLE evidence against a case then be my guest and blow out 8 off. I'm fine. This is for my own enjoyment and if you only go off it will not affect my vote at the end of the round. Like I said before I will vote on anything just as long as you win it. Love the Impact Calc. Very big deciding factor for me. Voice turns. Don't just say you turned it. Dropped turns were always my biggest issue and still tend to be so I'm sorry if I miss it because you were trying to get by the other team but it could cost you my vote on it. Just a simple "Turn" in the tag is fine. Just being honest. This is for the Space topic: I DO NOT KNOW ABBREVIATIONS OR ACRONYMS FOR THIS TOPIC! Please spare me and do not lead me through the word ITER for an hour and never explain what it is. Once again. Go for anything, win the argument and you have my vote on it.
  