
  Hello! My name is Eliana but you can call me E.

For those who care, I have done parli debate at CSU-Pueblo for the last 2 ½ years.

I will judge the round based off of my flow so make sure you are doing the work to win the round. I will do my best not to intervene.

Speed- I am okay with speed and I enjoy it. That being said because I haven’t been around policy a lot if you don’t slow down for tag lines and authors I am going to have a harder time understanding your arguments or the point of your DA or AD

fw/k affs- I believe the affirmative should typically be more towards the topical side. That being said I am more than willing to listen to your arguments and evaluate them in the round. Just make sure that you are being clear on your arguments and justifications of not being topical.

Kritiks- I am not well read on a lot of literature but I have read kritiks in my debate career. So if you provide a clear framework and you tell me what I am voting on I am definitely more than willing to vote on a Kritick. I have a lower tolerance for links of omission so make sure you are doing the work to show why the affirmative links to your K and why I should prefer your impacts

Identity politics- I would prefer that these arguments not be run in front of me for personal reasons. If you do decide to run these type of arguments please courteous of everyone in the room and provide trigger warnings. There is nothing worse than being caught off guard in a competitive atmosphere where you feel like you have to throw yourself on the line. Your speaker points will suffer if you do not provide a safe atmosphere for your competitors.

Theory- I have and will vote on theory so don’t just brush it off in round. Be realistic though and don’t read 6 T’s if you don’t need to read them. I am not the best at super high techy theory debate but I can definitely flow and follow theory.

Most of all this is a competitive space that we all love. Keep this space safe and accessible for all your competitors and have some fun.

If you have any questions please feel free to email me and I will do my best to answer any questions you may have! eliana.emt@gmail.com
  