
  I deleted most of my paradigm since no one reads it anyway.
About Me: I debated for Evanston (Twnsp) HS in both LD and Policy on the national circuit for 4 years and in college. My paradigm addresses both Policy and LD so if you don't get some of the rhetoric its probably because it applies to the opposite style of debate.

I wear my feelings and opinions on my face and sleeve as well as verbally sometimes.

There's only so much I can and am willing to type. So I would advise you to just ask me whatever questions you have.

In all honesty I wouldn't waste a strike on me like I vote on anything but what you do with your prefs is your business.

Contact-

ctaylor.ct2@gmail.com

FB: Nigel Ward (If you call me Carlos, I will hate you...Dont make me hate you)
Pumpkin Spice Latte or Cinnamon almond milk macchiato (Hot of course) is the quickest way to ascertain a 30 or 29.9 

TLfDR: 
Read whatever you want and do whatever you want
Say "and" , "next" or some type of audible indication when ending card and starting a tag 
Yes T and Heg DA vs a Non T aff is a viable and winnable strat in front of me. Definitely a lot better than trying to butcher a responsive K you aren't comfortable with 
Yes I will understand your craziest pomo aff/K so shoot your shot
Make the debate interesting 
Default Tech>truth but open to args that justify the opposite
I mostly judge clash of Civ or K v K debates
Unless you are faster than Markoff or Pappas you wont be too fast 
Some have called me a point fairy
Winning that the aff is bad is probably a good idea

Policy-Revised for Harvard

Tech > truth for the most part

Top level:

The arguments I read when I debated do not dictate my view on debate and instead provides experience and knowledge.


In the past I've read most kinds of arguments and books so I'll probably know what you're saying and can follow along as fast as you want.

Ks:

I know them and will be annoyed if you read them wrong. If you go for them, you should probably have a clear explanation of the alt by the 2nr (if you have one) and clear link explanation. Usually if you lose framework you lose the debate...PLEASE don't read me Wake's camp backfiles or the 1nc's you stole form BoSu, Mich KM, and other college wiki's that you don't understand

DAs:

read them, go for them. Have a specific link or good spin

CPs:

should be competitive. You determine what that means.

T:

A good T debate can be fun...keyword GOOD. If you're gonna read FW just be techy and good enough to out debate the aff. And if you're reading a non-topical Aff you should probably have framework answers memorized so I'm expecting a good debate.

Speaks:

I'm typically a point fairy so if you get low speaks you must have really fucked up!

If you go for aspec you will get a 30!

Troll your way to a 30



3. If Im looking at you like this ...you're probably fucking up, annoying me, or just my RBF...you'll know the difference!



Emory 2018 LD Update : 
Trump indicts are more dissuasive than persuasive. Debate should center around arguments not whining!

Debate views: 

Everything is debatable including whether or not oppression can bare positive results and or is good or bad. 

Tech>truth 

No defaults on theory

Do what ever you want
I'll understand your K better than you

You should probably have a metric/FW to evaluate impacts and guide the hierarchy of arguments

Probably not the best judge for heavy phil rounds. 


LITERALLY FLASHING ANALYTICS IS NOT A THING LEARN TO FLOW If you ask someone to flash you their overview I will laugh and assume flowing incompetence.
EDIT:Moreover, I am baffled by proposed inability to delete things from a received speech doc that wasn't read. If you were flowing you would know what was read and what wasn't. Requesting a new speech doc after every speech when there wasn't an unreasonable amount of cards skipped. The following quote was awarded with rather high speaks and shall serve as a reasonable response to such request...
"I told you what I didn't read, if you want it deleted do it during your prep"-Danielle Dosch 


I wear my feelings and opinions on my face and sleeve as well as verbally sometimes. 

There's only so much I can and am willing to type. So I would advise you to just ask me whatever questions you have. 


Read and go as fast as you want I only ask that you give me a verbal gesture when transitioning to the next card/argument LITERALLY JUST SAY "AND" OR "NEXT". It makes my flow neater and prevents any mix ups about arguments.


ONLY adapt within your skill level. if you are a Trad debater(please strike me) dont go try reading 30 AC spikes and 1ar Ks...you will fail and probably get your ass kicked. KNOW that I can follow you where ever you decide to take the round. I say this because time and time again kids try to become over night tricks and K debaters and end up loosing bubbles and Elims because they aren't debating in their comfort zone.
Heg High!
  