
  
I never debated in either high school or college.

History and background: I began my coaching career in 1981 at Ft. Pierce Central High School in Florida. I moved to Lincoln Park Academy in 1989, Lakewood High School and Tampa Jesuit in 2006, and currently coach a team of over 200 students at Jupiter High School in Jupiter, FL and have since 2006. Most of my LD knowledge comes from coaching a few students at Lincoln Park and several students at Jupiter (most notably, Kate Ferguson, FL state runner-up in 2007).

My philosophy on LD, sort of: For the first 20 of my almost 30 years of coaching and teaching debate, I coached policy almost exclusively. HOWEVER, I now teach and coach LD more than I do policy. I recognize and appreciate the differences between policy and LD. I do NOT expect to see vestiges of policy in an LD round (T, CP, DA and such). I do not mind speed at all, unless the opponent has issues with it. I like for LDers to support their value structures throughout the round. When I'm preparing to fill out my ballot, I first look to the value structure and which debater supported theirs better. I also look at the big picture and often vote on which "world" I like better - is the affirmative or negative world better overall? I can accept almost any value as long as the debater supports it well. Evidence is fine (even encouraged), but it shouldn't be a substitute for analysis and the use of accepted philosophy. I would describe myself as a tabula rasa judge in that I will go wherever the debaters take me.

I tend to favor cross-ex that is polite, non-confrontational, and direct. I don't judge the cross-ex period so be sure to include any admissions gained in your speeches.

Humor is always appreciated, but never at the expense of either debater.

I can handle theory just fine - just explain it well. For that matter, explain everything well.

I like long walks on the beach, puppies, and Barry Manilow. Reference to any or all three will probably win you the round.

My speaks will go anywhere from 22 (God-awful) to 30 (mega-super awesome). Usually the range is 26 - 28 for most rounds.
  