
  Hey kiddos! So I’m Catherine (Missy for short, but hey let’s not get too personal here) and I debated for Immaculate Heart High School in LA for four years. I did Lincoln-Douglas for a 2 ½ years and then transitioned over to Public Forum and Congress. (Don't worry, I watched LD rounds all 4 years--IH is primarily an LD school.) So I've spent the last year living in the middle of the forest on the tundra...no joke; I'm still readjusting to the sound of lawn mowers and the word freeway soooooo please bear with me.

Speed: I can handle speed somewhat, but it’s probably neither in your best interest, nor mine, if you spread like crazy. Just giving you a little heads up there. Some speed is fine, just don't go at your top speed. Like if your spread is like speeding down a highway and you normally go 90 mph and your parents can understand 40 mph, I can probably understand 65-70 mph. Again, I'm two years out and fresh off the tundra, keep this in mind.
Also, I will tell you "clear."

Substance: I’m flayish, so I can handle general arguments and case constructions like plans, DisAds, etc, but I’m not a huge fan of Ks. If you tell me to evaluate the K on both pre and post fiat level I will probably evaluate it on neither. I have given the ballot to people running Ks, but that just isn’t the norm for me. Ideally there should be one level of debate and you and other debaters shouldn't be the only ones who understand it. A good rule of thumb is to ask yourself: "Would my pet flying squirrel understand this?" If the answer is no, then don't read it.

Theory: Mehhhh. Maybe if there’s real abuse (like in the definitions etc.). Generally I'll look at the theory, but only if I think it's warranted in the round. If you're running theory for the hell of it, then good luck winning my ballot. In other words theory should only be used when there is a serious abuse that could cost you the round because bad theory will really hurt you.

Speaks: I’m a real fan of knock knock and chicken crossing the road jokes, so that will definitely get you into the high 20s, maybe. Being generally smart and not douchey, bitchy, or offensive is probably a good idea if you want high speaks. Also don’t stomp your foot like a horse or make ridiculous hand gestures. They’re awfully obnoxious. 

side note for speaks: If you walk into the round without a Nalgene hangin' low (Midd Kid...go look it up) or a Camelbak you might as well give up that 30 now.You have no excuse to kill the earth just because you do debate. If anything, you need to make up for the carbon footprint you left/leave by flying or driving to numerous tournaments. Also, all that flow paper???? Redonkulous you guys!!

Misc: EXTEND EVERYTHING IF YOU WANT IT TO COUNT. Also, weigh in the round, I don't care how you do it, just do it. Maybe I'll give you a cookie if you do it well, or hell, if you just do it.

General: If you need a soundtrack to your debate lyfeee txxxxt meee. Tender kizzzzezzzzz
  