
  Speed: Speed is fine as long as I can understand you (i only flow if you speak over 600 words a minute) (jk), I would most definitely appreciate it if you would slow down on the tags and clearly say AND when moving on to the next card. When it gets into the rebuttal time you can speak fast, just don't spread. The rebuttal is a time to clarify and answer arguments not time to lay new ones out. That means spreading isn't necessary.

Theory: Make sure it is a logical violation if it's not gut check worthy you probably shouldn't read it.

I don't believe in time skew theory because if there really was a time skew then one side of the debate would always have an advantage, but the win-loss record shows 50% win rate for each side so the theory doesn't exist.

Condo: I think 1 off and case is reasonable, don't be afraid to go 2 off just have good justifications if you do. Just a caution that i will be more lenient to the AFF's side if they question the necessity of you reading your off cases

Dispo isn't a thing so don't read it.

K: make sure that if the literature is abstract that you use the rebuttal time to clarify the literature, I don't read every book written by a german/french dude so make sure that what you are reading is at least logical. If you can clarify what your K is during CX by answering in a guided way i will probably give you a speaker point boost. For example, if the AFF ask you "What is the alt?" and you somehow explain the K while answering the question that's when I will give out the points. However, that being said I don't want you to go on a tangent and ignore the question asked. Don't throw out random perms and hope they drop one give me an idea as to what the world of a permutation looks like.

Debating can get frustrating especially if you think you won and the judge votes the other way. I went through that pain a lot. So I won't vote by who speaks the prettiest or has a good argument and it appears in the 2AR. I will vote on the flow and logical appeal of the arguments presented. BTW if you have any question on my decisions always feel free to ask. It is the thing I most regret about doing debate was not asking enough questions.
  