
  I graduated from the Indiana University School of Law, and I have debate coaching experience. Currently, I am coaching Shawn Tuteja.  I have taught International Relations and Global Politics, interned at the UN, and have studied economic sanctions extensively. Speed – You can go as fast as you’d like. However, by this point, you should understand whether you are being clear in your speaking. I will not give you a warning if you are unclear, and you will likely lose the debate if this is the case. Make sure you do not slur your words or run your sentences together. Theory – If you run theory, it needs to be unique and not some recycled debate camp theory that is seen at every tournament. I don’t really like theory unless absolutely needed to respond to your opponent’s burdens. Kritiks – I don’t want to hear bizarre arguments totally unrelated to the merits of using sanctions. Value/Criterion – Don’t gloss over this part of the case by applying the same values that are used in every case. Instead of placing burdens on your opponent, which are often unfair anyway, just use a criterion. Demeanor – You must show respect to your opponent and his/her arguments at all times. Arrogance will not help you win. Evidence – Your evidence needs to be from substantial sources and not Internet hacks. I’m very familiar with the imposition of sanctions worldwide. If you are using untested evidence or poor sources, your arguments will not be convincing. As your opponent cannot be expected to ascertain the accuracy of all your sources, a judge is well within his rights to discard blatantly false or skewed evidence to preserve the fairness of the debate. Cross Ex – Don’t waste everyone’s time by trying to use cross-ex as extra prep time. Ask substantial and difficult questions. Demonstrate an ability to speak on your feet. Miscellaneous – I prefer pure debaters, those who don’t have to rely exclusively on preparation, but who can think quickly and adjust to difficult situations. You must demonstrate this ability to get high speaker points. I don’t like cases that have nothing to do with the topic or that are overly reliant on debate camp tactics and jargon, as this gets tiresome quickly. If you’re going to bring a water bottle into the round, do not use it to stall or to take additional prep time after you’ve stopped your timer. Do not leave the round at any time, as this is disrespectful to your opponent. 
  