
  Nathan Thompson
Norman High 14
University of Oklahoma 18
Updated 15 Oct 2015

Background
 I debated for Norman High School (OK) for four years, graduating in 2014. I qualified to NSDA Nationals my junior and senior year, breaking twice and placing 24th my junior year. I primarily debated in Oklahoma and did not have the resources to travel. I worked at the UTNIF LD camp as an instructor in 2015 and am currently a novice policy debater at the University of Oklahoma.

(PF Paradigm for St. Marks)
 - faster than conversational speaking speed is preferred
- evidence is good. evidence comparison is better.
- I am more interested in substance than style
- I prefer you stand while speaking but don't really care
- I don't care where you sit
- I've not judged much PF before, but if you make arguments and compare them you'll do fine

Preferences
 
Speaking Preferences
 Speed is fine. I will clear you once if I cannot understand you.Indicate where your cards and arguments begin and end and slow down for authors and tags.
Framework
 Value and criterion are not necessary so long as you give me a way to decide the ballot.Label your framework arguments as what they are - I don't like tricky preempts or prestandards that become more than what they were in the constructive.
Theory
 I default to competing interps.You must have absolute clarity on what your interpretation is, especially if the text that you give your opponent is different than the one you read in round.I lean towards Education outweighing Fairness or at least controlling the value of it, but please do your own weighing on voters and I will listen to arguments otherwise.I will listen to potential abuse as an argument.
RVIs
 I will evaluate RVIs like anything else.I will evaluate 2AR RVIs in response to new 2NR theory.The RVI needs offense back to a counter-interp.
CX
 CX is binding.Don't lie or intentionally obscure your answers.I don't care whether you sit or stand, but be engaged.Flex prep is fine.
Kritiks
 Have clear tags.Your K should still link to an ethical framework.
Extension Evidence
 New evidence should only respond directly to an objection to the original argument - do not post-date the original card and do not read new offense.
Weighing
 Weighing is the difference between bad debate and decent debate. Please do it early and often. Explain your clash and interactions with their arguments.Give overviews in 2NR and 2AR that frame the round.
How to Get Good Speaks
 Weigh early and often through the round. Demonstrate how your arguments interact with others on the flow.Demonstrate a clear strategy and understanding of the importance of arguments on the flow. Don't just go for everything or straight down the flow.Be clear in CX. Good strategies needn't be disguised.
If you are clear, I will probably give between a 28 (borderline) and 30 (perfect, you've done something laudable, or I learned something). If you are not clear, I will probably give you between a 26 and a 27.5. Any points lower than 26 will be for punitive reasons (overt aggression or rudeness, problematic, etc).

Closing
 I love debate and hope you do too. Ask me questions after round if you want.
  