
  #PrefConalAOne

Note: I’m not really planning on judging anything in the near future, just saw that Javier was wondering where my paradigm was after he saw Delay CP’s, so I decided to make mine.

Disclaimer: As per the fact that I am currently a [Sophomore], and that I am influenced by Will Golay and Evan McKinney (and the rest of the Valley team for that matter), please note that this paradigm may seem a tad… eccentric. Also I might straight up steal some things from Will’s paradigm.

I debate for the Valley War Machine, and have been debating for [5] years, or so, I think, yeah I have no clue. Let’s just leave it at “enough”. [I’ve qualified to the TOC twice - once last year and this year]. I clear at a bunch of stuff, [won some things and stuff and things... and stuff] also I really like my Bettendorf 1st place trophy, (#DownWithConal, amirite?), and my coaches consist of Dave McG(money)innis, Isis Davis-Marx, Christ(ian Tarsney), and Leah Sentiments. 

The short and sweet (pfft I wish): I flow good, I listen to all args, don’t be an dingleberry, I like funny theory rounds. If you want to have a circuit round, I’m your guy. 

Full paradigm:

Defaults:

I default to reasonability, mostly just because it’s easier to evaluate.I default to voting aff, of course.I default to voting neg, duh.I presume aff because #11% side bias. Also I hate being aff too.If you throw a quarter at your opponent, I default to permissibility flowing neg.
Framework:

Framework is a kinda important in the round. I usually default to framework coming after Theory/T, but I love hearing people read Hoppe and saying it precludes theory. Important shenanigans:

1) It’s almost guaranteed that there’s going to be preclusion/prerequisite arguments so please weigh. I don’t want to have to do tons of work for you on the framework level. Remember, I’m a lazy judge who only came for the free Reese’s Cups.
2) I’ll cry if there’s a values debate. Justice vs Morality has a moral obligation not to happen.
3) You can still win the round if you lose framework, so don’t assume you win if your backfiles you stole from some other team destroy your opponent’s framework.

Theory (and T for that matter):

Theory is fun, I may not be very good at flowing mad fast theory arguments, especially not if they’re one sentence long and labelled as “A point, B point, C point, etc.”
I really like trolly interps, and then semantic I meets to those trolly interps. Funny theory debates are always fun.
I’ll pretty much vote on any theory or topicality shell as long as it’s not like hyper rude. Ya feel?

Ks:

My philosophy on Ks is, well, let’s just put it at “I won Jr. High Nats on an underview K about english language learners.” I will pretty much listen to any K, unless it’s role of the ballot is so crazy that I can’t even comprehend it. Please make it clear what my role of the judge/ballot is so I know what to do. Other than that, I think fun Ks like performance Ks are great, I would love to evaluate unique performances instead of a stereotypical round, I think it would be interesting. Also I know like none of the lit. 

Trigger warnings should be dished out in pints if your K could be offensive or a sensitive topic to your opponent or me, but I pretty much won’t be offended by anything unless it’s a K of Photoshop, and The Binding Of Isaac: Afterbirth, or perhaps a prioris. I would totally buy a K of Dave McGinnis though :P (JK, love you dad.). 

In short; if you have a K, run it, whatever man.

Miscellaneous: (Stolen and revised from Delay CP’s paradigm)

1) I couldn’t give a single care about whether you stand, sit, do a handstand, lay on your stomach, or whatever when you speak, as long as I can hear you. Unless of course you’re like, actually on top of your opponent or something, that would be a little odd.
2) Don’t be racist, sexist, homophobic, etc.
3) Don’t be rude in CX and drink from your water bottle then ask “Can you repeat the question?” over and over. However I do think it’s pretty funny. You’d probably get like a +1 speaker point, but don’t overdo it please. 
4) I don’t care as to whether or not you flow the 2AR, you can just chill, lean back, or check Facebook. Whatever suits you.
5) If you’ve read my paradigm already, please only ask about things that aren’t present or to clarify things that are. 
6) Flex prep/using CX time as prep is okay as long as your opponent is cool with it too.
7) If I can tell you’re trying to adapt when I say clear, whether it’s successful or not, I will say it two times. If you’re not adapting or only adapting for 10 seconds, I’ll stop flowing you and make funny faces.
8) Flashing is okay (to the point where I tolerate it), but don’t run disclosure theory/other stupid shell if they refuse to. You can always ask to read over their shoulder or look at their case during prep/CX.
9) I won’t call stuff unless a) I think I misflowed something or am misunderstanding something, or b) there’s arguments flying about the text of something (interp, card date, etc.)
10) DON’T RECORD YOUR OPPONENTS SPEECHES AND EXPECT ME TO LET YOU STAKE THE ROUND ON ACCOUNT OF CLIPPING CARDS, I HONESTLY COULDN’T CARE LESS.

Speaker Points, and Segways to a 30: (Note, 3 or more of these must be done to actually receive a 30, otherwise it would be too easy)

Have your neg roadmap be “6[ + x] off, AC”Extend a theory spike or trigger of any kind whilst flipping a trap card from Yu-Gi-Oh and saying “They have activated my trap card”Rap all of your rebuttals.Say “Roll of the Scroll” instead of “Role of the Ballot” in every single instance. (Which I’ve found to be quite challenging, slip ups will cancel this).Refer to your opponent as Turnt Glurblurt the entire round (must be pronounced correctly, you can ask for a demonstration of the pronunciation before the round).End all of your speeches by saying “U can’t c me.”Wear a snazzy cap.Do the whip [or obnoxiously dab] every time you segway to the next arg (in your rebuttal or constructive, for example, whip when you get from contention 2 to contention 3, or whip when you say “move to their second contention,” must be on beat.)Say “game over issue” every time you extend a conceded argument.[Use the archaic definition of every word in the resolution.][Refer to me as "brud" and your opponent as "anti-brud"]
General ways to get good speaks:
Be clear, just make it so I can flow things please.Don’t spread into your laptop, unless you have sight issues, in which case, if you have to whatever.Tell me that you preferred me a 1, it makes me feel important.
How to avoid bad speaks:
Don’t ask for flashing or disclosure before the round whilst in earshot of me, please flash only before speeches. (This may be a tad arduous considering u cant c me)Don’t consult any specters before your constructives.Don’t be rude to your opponent.
[How to ensure yourself 20 speaks: READ DISCLOSURE THEORY]

“u cant c me” - myself
“hes a mental giant” -delay cp
“bisexual round” -swiss wiss
 
  