
  Debate's a game. Do what you do best, and I'll try and be fair and pay attention to whatever you have to say.
4th year debater in open at George Mason. Went full K for a year and now I'm back on the policy side. That being said, I'll listen to whatever.
case debate - awesome! impact turns are cool. i think a lot of affs end up getting away with way too much shit.
DAs - i think there can be 0% risk of a link. I don't like DAs with thrown together ridiculous internal link chains. do impact calc early. politics das are probably good for debate.
CPs - please slow down on CP texts, especially if youre reading a multi plank cp. cps that result in the plan are shitty. 
T - slow down on your analytics. go in depth. dont be blippy. i wanna see more of these debates, 
theory - same as t, slow down, dont be blippy. lean neg on condo. perf con is probably bad. rvis suck and i will tank your speaks if you read them. little violations like severence are typically a reason to reject the arg not the team.
k - im mostly familiar with fem and queer theory, but proficient on any other generic ism you can throw out. try to have specific links to the plan, not just their impacts. dont lie to me and say youre overview is short if its really gonna be two minutes long. if you decide to read high theory bullshit in front of me i will strongly dislike you unless you can ELI5. i also am getting really tired of like, straight people reading things like queer rage or white people reading certain types of critical race lit. stop co-opting peoples identites just to win a ballot.
planless affs - cool with. but make sure you actually do something - i dont like shifty k affs that change what they do from speech to speech depending on how the neg responds. i also prefer you to be tangentially related to the topic. the neg should get some ground other than cap or fw. i however firmly believe that novices should read plan texts.
fw - go for it. t-versions usually make a lot of sense. i prefer d-making over fairness as an impact.
dumb args ala time cube or ashtar cp - you probably wont get very good speaks in front of me if you read these, but if an aff team is bad enough to lose against them, than thats there problem. 

some generic things-
im pretty lax on prep time when it comes to paperless debate, but if i catch you stealing prep i will punish you.
i believe this is a communication activity so i will try to read as few cards as possible. that being said, if youre reading absolutely atrocious evidence, you should also be punished.
tech over truth.
i will vote on presumption
please dont call me 'judge.' my names michelle (:

to get good speaks in front of me, have fun. ill call clear twice before i stop flowing. be sassy but not rude. good peter susko jokes will get you a .1 boost. say anything racist, sexist, homophobic, transphobic, etc and youre not gonna have a good time. 

put me on you email chain. mthomasgmu @ gmail
  