
  Hello, my name is J.R. Thorsen and I was an LD debater from 2004-2007 and an O.O. participant 2007 at Lake Highland Prep. School. I am currently at college and help out with the alma mater from time to time. Unfortunately, this makes me an L.D. dinosaur since I have not taught at a camp since my first year out. I assume some of the terminology I used for L.D. is now extinct but I believe it reveals how I understand rounds. I believe you would call me a "Mommy Judge" but I am sincerely interested in conducting a fun round for everybody. I do not want L.D. to go back to the way they were because I believe ingenuity is what keeps this activity going but I want you to fully understand my limits as a critic.

Advocacies and frameworks (preferring the traditional VP/VC framework but not married to it) make up the base of an LD debate for me. That being said I recognize I have certain assumptions about the VP/VC framework and how it works, so I give it a little more leeway. I prefer an argument that is well impacted and weighed back to the standard over a multiplicity of underdeveloped arguments. But I would do whatever makes you feel comfortable because adapting poorly does not really do it as much as having your own style and owning it. So I will not penalize non traditional arguments (kritiks value inclusive counter advocacies or other neato things).

I do hold a very high standard of proof for theory arguments (what I mean by that is voters like education/fairness etc.) Let me put it simply.... in debate if you can win, that is what you should do, if you can define such that your opponent has a disadvantage, you should do it... so it not being fair will not compel me. Now it not being resolutional... that has some sway.

I used to flow pretty well but I honestly do not judge enough to be considered supper flow able. I'm trying my hardest but you need to know that flow drills are no longer part of my weekly activities. I love persuasion.

To quote Tim Case: "My largest suggestion - An argument has a claim, warrant, and impact. I WILL NOT VOTE ON UNDER-DEVELOPED ARGUMENTS. I simply wont do it. If you spend 5 seconds extending your offense...you can bet I will tell you that you didnt extend offense."

One last thing, I hope you will show the event, you competitor, the judge, and yourself enough respect to dress and act in a manner becoming of a young professional.

I hope this gives you a general overview of how I am as a judge and any specific questions will be answered before the round.

Bonus points for CLS
  