
  Rohit Thota 
High School: Highland Park High School, TX
College: University of Texas at Dallas 

Meta-Level: This is for those who are reading this 5 seconds before walking in the room. I can be persuaded to vote on almost anything as long as you CLEARLY EXPLAIN the argument. Go into as much depth as you possibly can, it just makes it easier for me to vote at the end of the debate. Go through each level of an argument keep in mind it must have a claim, warrant and an impact. 


Topicality-- These debates normally get really messy, please make sure your interpretation is clear and why it is better for debate. Although competing interpretations are important, I find a well developed reasonability argument to probably be better for debate in general. 
The way aff teams lose T debates is that the Neg has a well rounded interpretation that has a predictable limits argument and specific instances of ground loss that should be predictable based on the resolution. The aff needs to make sure all theory landmines in the block are handled in the 1AR.



Disads-- The mores specific the better. Impact calc is super important. 


Counterplans-- Plan specific, nuanced counterpleas o/w generic counterpleas you throw out in every round. Please explain the mechanism, I'm a huge fan of a specific cp/da debate that you tailored for a specific aff/team. 


Kritiks-- Buzzwords don't count as an argument-- explain what those words mean and how they apply in this debate. I am familiar with a subset of the literature but not all of it please make sure you explain the argument. The neg will have an uphill battle convincing me the aff shouldn't weigh the plan and the gaff will have an uphill battle winning the neg doesn't get a k. Please frame this debate from both sides-- i.e. what happens in the world of the aff and why is this better than the world of the neg?

Aff's-- I will evaluate the gaff regardless of if it has a plan or not. Just explain your argument and why you should win. My preconceptions will not enter the room with me. The neg can win framework but the gaff can just as easily convince me their framing is the better one. 

Don't cheat-- I will catch you and you will receive zero speaker points just don't do it.
  