
  Nitya Timalsina

I debated LD for Helix Charter High School from 2009 to 2010.
Conflicts: Helix, Rancho Bernardo

I'm currently attending UCSD, majoring in Environmental Chemistry (B.S.) and Philosophy (B.A.).

I'm familiar with how LD functions and will evaluate the round based on (1) framework and (2) offense within the framework, in that order. 
You can run any framework or offense that floats your boat. 

What I like:
Philosophy. Feel free to get as in-depth as you like, as long as you explain it well and it makes sense within your framework. That said, if you butcher the philosophy, I will butcher your speaks (even if doesn't impact my ultimate decision). Basically, just make sure you have a good understanding of how the philosophy works within your framework before you present it. That said, if you present the philosophy well, you will make me very happy. Roadmaps! Enough said.Creativity. I don't want to hear the same arguments over and over again so make sure yours has a personal touch.

What I dislike:
Arrogance. Don't keep telling me that you've won the round (in manner that is derogatory to me or your opponent, that is). That's for me to decide. It's fine to explain why you think you've won as long as you're not rude or constantly repeating yourself. Lying during cross-ex. Don't do it.Things that aren't medically or scientifically accurate. I will know and I will dock points.
Speaker points:
I haven't flowed in a while so keep that in mind when you speak.

Speed is fine. Just make sure you enunciate and clearly mark transitions between arguments. I can't stress this enough. BE CLEAR. 

I will say "speed" or "clear" to indicate whether you're speaking too quickly or not speaking clearly enough. 
If I have to say "speed" or "clear" more than twice (each), it may impact your speaks.

I'm pretty generous with speaker points and tend to give high speaks unless the speaker is just terrible, doesn't listen when I say "speed" or "clear", or does something offensive. I will give you 28.6 or above if I think you deserve to break.

Feel free to ask me any general questions before the round and enjoy the experience!
  