
  Hi, I'm Jordan! I debated 4 years in policy debate at The College Preparatory School in Oakland, CA. I am currently a sophomore at Claremont McKenna College In Los Angeles, CA majoring in Philosophy and Public Affairs. I enjoy playing tennis, ping pong, smash bros (n64, gcube, wii, wiiU) and freestyle rapping. 

Debate is a game, but it ultimately is a community game. Introduce yourselves, make friends, and be courteous in the round. I prefer a relaxed atmosphere.
An argument is a claim and a warrant. I don't care if the other team "dropped" the fact that you said the words "causes extinction." You need to still extend your original argument and explain to me the full story -- or summary of -- the mishandled argument. I believe you can win a debate without evidence, and I try not to call for evidence unless there is a dispute. Therefore, I have a high threshold for evidence extension and comparison. Be creative. Article and book funding sources matter.

My favorite debates:
-Impact turns
-DA and case
-Tech'd out strat

In general, I view myself as reasonable. You can read poetry, dress up in costume, rap, or perform something else entirely as long ask your position is justified and tied to the resolution. I try to make sure teams leave the round satisfied with the decision. I'm always happy to talk more after the round or via email (jordan.trafton@gmail.com). Watch for my many, obvious non-verbal cues as to my thoughts on arguments, your clarity, etc.


Education
College Prep, CA -- 2012
University of Pennsylvania, PA -- 2012 - 2013
Claremont McKenna College, CA -- 2014 - 2017

Debate History
I've competed on the national circuit and attended the Tournament of Champions. I also was a National Forensics League (I hear it's NSDA now) semifinalist.
I read mostly right leaning arguments in high school. I often went for case and DA or process cp and DA.
Coaching: Local and national circuit LD and policy. Previous policy coach at Chaminade College Prep.

Speaker Points -- to get more
Make jokes.
Look fresh.
Reference starcrat, smash bros, legend of kora, zoolander, house of cards...
End speeches early (strategically -- an extreme form of this is the TKO (technical knockout; more info can be found on Brian Manuel's page)).
Offer me food (hi-chew/imagination) or beverage (coffee/juice/water).
Don't use all of your prep.
Show me your flows.
Freestyle rap or perform a cool rap.
2AC add-ons and straight turns.
1AR cards.
Going for the 1NR.
Written cross-x questions.

Debate Arguments
Rolling right will probably be the cleanest debate. I would enjoy a well-articled K debate more, however, my experience has taught me this type of debate is hard to come by. If you read a critical affirmative or a K, you need to make sure I understand it. I repeat, I have a high threshold for winning K debates. If you are not confident enough in your explanation or solid enough in your link analysis, then I would advise going for another position. Topicality comes down to reasonable limits. I don't like theory. Only go for it if you have to. Process CPs must be topic specific, and I have a soft spot for the politics DA. I also have a soft spot for the cross-x of the 1NC politics DA (especially about political capital theory, the nuances of the bill, the specific congressmen and women involved, etc).

-- FYI --
I enjoy reading philosophy and literature. My favorite philosopher/historian is
Michel Foucault, and my favorite author is George Orwell (bonus points to references).
I voted and am a registered democrat in the last election. I agree with many libertarian and republican claims, however (vote for issues, not parties).
I'm a white, Jewish male.
I grew up in Berkeley, CA.



EMAIL: jordan.trafton@gmail.com
  