
   
 Table of Contents 
Info:
Summary:
Short Version:
Policy Arguments:
Kritiks:
Philosophy:
Tricks:
Non-Topical Affs:
A Brief Precaution:
Theory:
Topicality:
Cross Examination:
Speaks:
How to kill your speaks:
How to increase your speaks:

Info:
 Nathaniel Tran
LHS Class of 2018
I want to be in the email chain. My email is nathanieljtran@gmail.com if you have questions.
This is my 4th year debating. I've debated three years VLD for Loyola High School in Los Angeles.
Summary:
 Debate is a game. Read anything: Tech>Truth, but your tech must be backed with arguments. Arguments must have a claim, a warrant, and an impact. I will try my hardest to not intervene in my decision; if I think you make bad arguments it will affect your speaks, not whether you win or lose. I flow CX. Trolling in CX is funny. Disclose. I will not evaluate embedded clash. New in the 2 will not be flowed. Don't be stupid; have fun.
Short Version:
 I can flow, but your spreading must be clear. Go slower on tags and authors and dates.27 speaks is my minimum and 30 is my max. I'll average a 28.5.If you ask your opponent to delete everything they didn't read, your speaks will scream in anguish, my friend.Flashing is prep. If your computer has issues, talk to me before round and I won't grant you flashingI will vote on literally anything as long as it has a link chain and you explain it to me.Good evidence will be rewarded. Bad evidence will be punished. That being said, I will not call for evidence unless you tell me to or if I have to do so to make a decision. It is your responsibility to tell me to look at the piece of evidence.If you don't disclose at least 10 minutes before round, unless you're breaking new, your max speaks will be a 29.If you hide from a flip, you're a coward. I think cowardice is a voter.I have a high threshold for extensions. Know your evidence, explain the warrant, and impact it.Policy Arguments:
 I like policy arguments a lot. DA's, CP's, all that good stuff. Your weighing game best be on fleek though.Plans and Counterplans should have solvency advocates. I default to drop the arg on solvency advocate theory, but that doesn't mean I can't be persuaded otherwise.Use impact calc. Please.I want fleshed out perms. If I don't hear a clear net benefit in the 1AR, I will face the other way in the 2AR if you begin to make one.I think impact turns are fun. I think the burden is on the person introducing the impact turn to do the evidence/impact weighing.Kritiks:
 I love Kritiks. I read Cap on the Aff and Neg almost every single round my junior year. That being said, you will be disappointed if you think this means I will be a softie for Cap K's. You still need to explain what everything you say means. For example, what is "ontology, epistemology, anonymization"? Please explain what these words mean.Explain to me why the K is on a higher level than the Aff.I do not like reject alts. Let me re-phrase: I do not like debaters who read reject alts and cannot explain what they mean. If your alt is structured like this: "Reject the aff in favor of...x" then you better be able to explain why "x" is a preferable world than the aff world. "x" cannot be "the absence of an aff world". If you are hitting a K like this, I expect you to make these arguments.I default to "policymaking simulation good" as opposed to "fiat is illusory" and allowing the Aff to weigh against the K.Philosophy:
 I am okay with phil NC's but don't have a great understanding. Please explain them.Phil is a pretty good strat against K's.I like Lib.Tricks:
 I think K tricks are entertaining.I will vote on skep. If you go for it, -1 speaks.If you have an original a priori, I think you are a cOoL Kid. That being said, it better make sense.-1 speaks if you go for a blippy, one sentence a priori.I always wanted to run contingent frameworks but my coaches advised me not to. They seem cool.Non-Topical Affs:
 I don't like them. But I will still vote on them.If you're the neg against one, I think a K v K Aff debate would be very fun. I read 6:30 min K's against Non T Affs, and I'd say those rounds were the most fun I've had in LD (besides reading NC-v-San-Marino.docxDetailsDownload57 KB).
A Brief Precaution:
 If the following are your primary strats, I'm probably not your judge, unless the aff is clearly non-topical.
Theory:
 Go medium speed. These are analytics. You're not supposed to spread full speed through them.I default to drop the debater, competing interps, text>spirit of the interp, and no RVI's unless I've mentioned otherwise in certain instances.If you go for an RVI in front of me, -1.5 speaks. I'll still vote on it though.I evaluate Fairness vs Education with epistemic modesty. Your weighing must be preclusive for me to prioritize one over another.I think Jurisdiction is probably the terminal impact to all voters.If you don't have a concrete text of the interp sent to me and your opponent, I will trash your speaks.Topicality:
 See point 1 above.See point 2 above.Tech matters, but I want explanations.I think the 1AR should weigh the T vs the K.Cross Examination:
 Ask what a floating PIK is and your speaks will suffer. Ask me before round what it is if you don't know. Don't play dumb. I know which schools know what a floating PIK is.Don't be discriminatory.I flow it.This is an entertaining CX. I may be biased because Reece is a god, but I think he is walking the line on obnoxious and entertaining very well. I won't get offended easily, but tell me if you are feeling super uncomfortable.
Speaks:
 I operate on a 30 point scale, but adapted to the 27-30 range. So a 27 is like getting 0 speaks and a 30 is like getting 30 speaks. The lowest speaks I will give you will be 3.0 speaks away from your max possible speaks.
How to kill your speaks:
 Ask for links to the K in CX. For example: "Do you think racism is good?" or some stupid move like that.Ask an "Are you aware" question in CX.Racial slurs.Ask to take part of CX as prep.Reading pre-written generic blocks and not doing weighing.Saying "Perm double bind" and nothing more.Not being able to explain your argument.How to increase your speaks:
 Run cowardice as a voter, go all in on it in your last speech, and win and you will get a 30.30 speaks if you win off of a one card K using only the Zizek and Daly 04 card.No CX no prep.4 minutes of prep going into the 2AR.Open Source.Good overviews.Being funny and running funny strats. Not stupid strats. If you're aff, run it by me before the round begins.
  