
  Experience:
I competed in Lincoln Douglass Debate from 1997-2001 at Phillipsburg High School. I have been an assistant coach at Phillipsburg High School in New Jersey since 2007 and head coach at William Allen High School in Pennsylvania since 2014. I have judged high school forensics for 10+ years and am considered a traditional flow judge.
Speed: 
 Speaking rates of all speeds are perfectly acceptable to me, but I need to be able to understand you. If you choose to motor-mouth through your speeches, I can keep up as long as you are articulate and enunciate. However, if you can deliver a compelling case smoothly and at a somewhat conversational tone, I will likely reward you with additional speaker points.Both sides have an equal burden as far as I am concerned. A trivial example by the negative that contradicts the resolution is probably not enough to prove the resolution false. Similarly, if the affirmative offers a lot of rhetoric but not a lot of empirical evidence or specific examples that support the resolution, the negative certainly has an easier path to victory. 
Argumentation: 
I value argumentation and debate, not technicalities. Obviously, I feel that kritiks do not allow for discourse, but are in attempt to shut it down without actually debating. If you want to win, you must actually present a case and clear line of argumentation, not try to skirt the task presented to you. 
Winning the value/criteria debate is a nice bonus but not an automatic win. In fact, the opposing debater can choose to accept the other’s value and corresponding criteria and win if he/she is more persuasive in debating the opponent’s criteria.Crystallization is key to winning the round. Be sure you allow yourself ample time to establish clear grounds and warrants on all voters. I don’t consider arguments just because they are uttered; you must explain the ‘why’ and the ‘so what’ in order for me to weigh them in my decision. I do appreciate clear signposting throughout the round in order to make the necessary links and applications to other arguments, and I will give you more speaker points if you do this effectively. Speaker points are also rewarded for competence and clarity during the round.
  