
  Debated and currently judging for Eden Prairie.

T – I’m probably not the best judge for this. I didn’t particularly enjoy these debates and I don’t think I will as a judge either. However, if this is your strong suit or the aff is untopical, you should obviously go for it. If you do decide to extend this argument, please don’t just repeat the definitions – explain the implications of debating an untopical plan.

DA – They’re cool. I love creative disads with tricky links.
However, the politics DA is a lie. I would thouroughly appreciate it if you don’t get into deep debates about what bill will/won’t get passed because of the plan.

CP – Advantage CPs are pretty awesome. Agent CPs….not so much.

K – They’re interesting arguments. I think the toughest part about running a K is explaining the alternative. If you can win the alt in front of me, you have a pretty high chance of winning. Shouting buzzwords like “ontology, epistemology, methodology, resentiment, body without organs, Dasein, the Erotic, the Sacred, traversing the fantasy, leap of faith” might make you sound cool, but it’s not going to help you win the round if you don’t explain what they mean. And for the love of one of the Hindu gods, I’m not a psychology major – please explain what the Imaginary, Symbolic, Real, etc. is. Finally, to quote Deleuze and Guattari from their perennial classic, A Thousand Plateaus, (1980 edition), “Please don’t abstract our theories in a debate round.”

Theory - Please go slow on the line by line. I tend to view condo bad as cheating/last resort if the aff doesn't know what to say against the neg. Please refrain from being serious about this argument unless the neg is going more-offs-than-Kevin Costner's children.

To quote Google, “Don’t be evil TM”. If you’re racist, sexist, and/or homophobic, I’m gonna assume you’re a time-travelling bigot from the 1800s.

PS
Even though there are arguments that I prefer and dislike, as any good judge will tell you, please run what you are comfortable and confident with.

If you have any questions pre or post-round, feel free to ask me in person or email me at nishadt15@gmail.com
  