
  Bob Trzynka
Watertown, SD '94
Harvard '98

Ex-policy geek.
Current Head Coach of Vermillion, SD high school.

I'm pretty simple to figure out. Below are a few suggestions to get good speaks from me.

1) I will vote for what you tell me to vote for. I'm pretty open to any argument. Let me know what the argument is, what are its merits, why it's important, and that's about all I need. Let me know if something's a voter. Also, if you think that something should not be a voter, give me the theory argument why it shouldn't.

2) Make sense. Logic does have a place, and we're in a logical activity. Don't worry folks, I'm a firm believer of the ludicrous impact scenarios (in fact, they rather entertain me); that being said, just because your impact scenario ends in a collapse of the Earth's gravitational field, doesn't mean that I'll be entertained enough to vote for it without a viable rationale as to how you got there. Oh, and, by the way, you have to explain why that's bad.

3) Be organized. I'd at least like some semblance of a hint that you actually either read or followed your opponent's case. Extra cookies for those that do.

4) Be strategic. Your positions will evolve. It goes without saying that you will have to pick and choose what you're going to go for. Good strategic choices get extra cookies.

5) Speak well. This is, surprisingly enough, a speech activity. No worries on speed, but at least pretend to try and be clear. Clarity in speech and thought are big ups for me.

6) Follow the rules. There are rules and theory to a debate. I will not arbitrarily enforce some sort of rule or theory violation (see #1). That being said, I am happy to hear a nice comfy theory argument. However, as a caveat, make sure you understand the argument you're making (see #2; #5).

And... some specific thoughts/positions:

T: it's all good
K: not naturally inclined toward them, but I've voted for them
CP: go for it.
Theory: sure
Conditionality: give me a solid argument.

There are no arguments that I automatically reject. Generally speaking, give me a solid argument, and I'll consider it.

Have fun folks, be polite, and speak well.
  