
  I have been head debate coach at Milbank High School in South Dakota since 1978. Before that I coached two years at Hyde County Schools. I debated in high school (loved it) and college (hated it) briefly. I started judging high school debate when I was in college. When I judge now, I try to alternate weekends between policy and Lincoln/Douglas. I can enjoy both as well as public forum if I get the chance to hear some of those rounds.


In all events, please realize that I am a speech teacher first. Educating young people to communicate their ideas is of primary importance. The sender is important, the message is important, the receiver is important, and the feedback is important!

Policy
Recognize that I have to understand the words you are saying first and foremost. I do not hesitate to provide you visual feedback that will clearly indicate I cannot understand you if that is the case. I do not orally tell you that. Ideally, YOU should notice my reaction, but I don't object to your partner saying "enunciate" or "slower" or whatever single word will help you get your message across to me better.
Topicality--Some affirmative cases may warrant a topicality challenge; others do not. Think about it and decide if it applies this round. I detest spread debate on topicality. Be succinct.
Case attacks--I happen to still believe case attacks are an important aspect of forensics. I think a negative team shows some credibilty when they have some good case attacks. Case attacks are the heart of the resolution. I still believe in the stock issues and will vote on them---including----GASP----INHERENCY! The biggest problem I have with my being a stock issue paradigm is that no one wants one in the back of the room. I think the negative should be delighted to have one listening and judging myself!
DA's--Disadvantages are important, but every disadvantage does not have to end with the extinction of people somehow. Be honest when you give it weight. The better the link story, the more likely I am to believe it. Often that is where I find many DAs are vulnerable in my mind.
K's--These are not my favorite arguments that a team can advance. If you opt to do so, be sure it has some impact on the round.
CPs--Counterplans are an okay strategy, but why waste time on a topical one or a conditional one? Sorry but I think the negative team should not affirm the resolution and should commit themselves to a policy.
Tags--I want to flow. Keep them short.
Tagteam--Really? Do you think that is necessary because your partner is that much of an idiot and you have to prove that to me? Trying to make yourself look good at your partner's expense is not a way to gain ethos for your team.
Evidence--I want to understand it so read it so I can do so. Any misleading or falsification of evidence that is noted hurts not just you, but your entire squad and coaches reputation as well. Think long and hard about trying to get away with it.
Theory arguments--As Dr Phil says, I didn't just fall off the turnip wagon so please don't treat me like I did. Sometimes a theory argument is reasonable and is needed.

Feedback----If I move my paper to the next sheet theatrically, move on. Either you have satisfied me on that issue or are just digging yourself deeper into a hole the more you talk about it. Look at me for feedback. I like to think I am important---even if you don't think I am, try to appease me.

All argumentation goes out the window in making a decision if you don't know how to act like a professional and a compassionate human being to people who are in the room.
  