
  School Affiliations: Wiley College “Great Debaters”

Pi Kappa Delta Public Forum runner-up
AFA Finalist
Pi Kappa Delta National Champion in 
NPDA competitor

I’ve judged high school debate for the past two years, which makes me much more “fresh”, I’m sure, than other judges. That being said, on a base level, I encourage creativity and humor. I esteem educational arguments the most, because that is the point of debate, education. 

I slightly bias the Aff. Simply because they set the standard for the case, and as long as they can defend their case with arguments, give me the impacts, and lay out firm links, they will take the win. Harder said then done though ;). On another note, I will only vote on what you bring up as voters. How you win isn’t the issue if the win is warranted, but you have to tell me as the judge that you’ve won. You could have the better argument, but don’t assume I’m voting because it’s obviously better. A small detail, but it’s caused some tough losses. 

Anyway…

K and theory: I won’t say I love when people run a K. (But I love when people run a K!!) I’m not easily convinced, but as an English major I’m well versed in post modernist work. So I’m interested in seeing how students approach the case. 

Philosophy: Know your stuff. I get kids in there pretending to know something about Deleuze, Foucault, or Zizek and I’m going to have a fit. And I’ve had it happen. But if you know your stuff, and are able to have clear evidence, WELL EXPLAINED in order to construct the framework, then I’m in for the ride. 

Speed: I will raise my hand once, and give verbal “clear”. If you don’t change how fast you’re going after that, realize it will affect the round. I am generally okay will speed though. I don’t like when people rely on it. If you talking that fast, you better have good things to say, and a lot of them. 

Disclosure: Only in a really good round. Otherwise, it’s generally clear why one person won over another. As long as you aren’t a pest about it though, I’m willing to talk after rounds. 

Rhetoric: Look, I love a little blood sport when it comes to attacking peoples cases, but if you can’t be civil about it, I WILL DROP YOU. A part of being heard, is knowing HOW to say things. Just don’t be a complete prick and you’ll be fine. 

Happy Debating!
  