
  The best way to win my ballot is to establish a clear and consistent decision calculus and use it to weigh against your opponent's offense. Whether its a standard, burden, weighing impacts, or something else, make sure you prioritize the offense in the round and tell me where to vote. If your opponent gives a different decision calculus explain why yours comes first.

Prestandard/Prima facie/A priori: There needs to be a very clear and consistently articulated reason why they come before the standard and if there are multiples there needs to be clear analysis how to prioritize them in the round. Other than that, they are fine by me.

Theory: I tend to view debate as a game and I will entertain theory in most rounds as a form of strategy. However, I don't like an empty theory shells so in-round abuse is usually key. If theory gets messy I won't spend time sifting through shallow assertions and I will look to some other level of the debate. Also, reading a theory shell without an in-round implication (a reason why your opponent links to it) is a way to lose. To avoid this, run a counter interp, generate offense on their standards, or make specific I meet arguments. 

Speed: I have no personal bias against speed.The only issue, however, is that I just straight up cannot flow 15 two-second assertions in the framework or on theory or anywhere else for that matter so make sure they are warranted and developed. Also, I really appreciate it if you slow down for card names, tags, and structural transitions. If I miss the author name it becomes problematic for your extensions. So, go as fast as you want at your own risk. If I didn't hear the argument then I won't vote on it. Some judges leave spaces and fill arguments in as the debate progresses. I am not one of those judges. Also, BE CLEAR.

Speaks/Random other things: Speaks are based on the quality of argumentation, and general in-round-demeanor. One thing that will result high speaks is if you run a position, that is WELL JUSTIFIED, that I have not heard before on the topic. If you entertain me in an intelligent way it will pay off. Finally, if you say something sexist, racist, homophobic, extremely rude, whatever in any part of the debate I will slash your speaks. Most judges will drop you, I don't think that rudeness has any impact on whether you are winning arguments that win you the round so It will only effect you in terms of speaks. Caveat- I reserve the right to change my mind on this one depending on how offensive you are.

Happy Debating.
  