
  Mohammad Ullah
High School: Stephen F. Austin High School (Sugar Land)
High School Debate Experience: 4 years LD 
3 years Oratory 
4 years Extemp 
Impromptu 
College: University of Houston
Current Debate Team: None
Rounds judged this year: 150
Years Judging: 3
Current Job: Judge/Mentor
Other info: Best debate is a balanced debate. Don't need to follow every single paradigm to win a round; just go for what's most important clearly. 



Paradigm - Order of importance : Framework, evidence comparison, Impact calculus 
On a scale of 1 (Traditional) and 11 (Kritikal) - 7
Favorite Debate Argument: Discourse Kritiks
Least Favorite Argument: Spreading Kritiks
Won't vote on: 4 min. 1AR Theory Shells
Spreading Kritiks 
Arguments with no impact to them 


Other broad preferences: Ask me specifically for your event.
Signposting and sticking to your roadmap is important 



Specifics - 
Likely to vote on (1 is low, 5 is high)
Topicality 5
Theory 3
Disads 5
Counterplans 4
Kritiks 5


A good debate about Topicality Interpretations-Counterinterpretation debates are the most exciting. 
Clearly, quickly label the impact to T 


A good debate about Theory:
No skep, RVIs, or NIBS 
No conspiracy theory level stuff ie "the US directly supports ISIS" 
Make sure you understand what your author truly says or believes. 
A good debate about disads: Specific indictment where the opposing team's plan actually does/would trigger the Disad. Find the card or lay out the link chain clearly.
Take into consideration current events and understanding of governmental processes; international relations as well.
A good debate about counterplans:
Definitely have to show me mutual exclusivity if its going to work.
I need a net benefit
I like a good debate tooth and nail between a CP and a Plan Aff 
A good debate about Kritiks: Kritiks can be done by BOTH Aff and Neg. 
There must be an alternative. 
The alternative ought to be a substitution alt; don't just reject the aff or some ideology; what do you bring as a replacement?


Other specific argument prefences: 
Claims on postdating evidence needs to be impacted. 
Author and source comparisons need to be done logically; not in a manner that disparages someone's work. 


Other Things:
Speed: 5
Their flow: 5
Comments on flowing/speed: I flow on my laptop.
I will say clear if need be; if I have have to say more than 2-3 times, I dock speaks. 


Gives good speaker points (1 is low, 10 is high) - Self rated-
8
Factors for speaker points: Courtesy
Taking turns while speaking 
Patience 
Clarity over speed when you can
Signposting 
Slow down on tags and cites 



Other:
I have equal respect for traditional and progressive styles of debating. 
No Kritiks in PF. Advocacies in PF are okay. 
  