
  I debated for 4 years at Greenhill, and now I'm debating for Georgetown. 

Quick Things
- Tech > Truth
- I like research so well-researched strategies will be rewarded
- Evidence is good to provide support for arguments, but logic and good analytics are necessary. Extending a piece of evidence without explanation doesn't really get you anywhere. 
- Do what you do best, but since I debated more CP/Case/DA strategies, I'm more accustomed to them

Case
Debating the case is underrated -- whether its defense, impact turning, or case turns. Good case debating and strategies will be rewarded.

CPs
In terms of process CPs, I'm not a huge fan if they are really generic. Process CPs are awesome if they have specific evidence about the AFF/ topic. 
Well-researched PICs (even word pics) are awesome. 
I'm somewhat indifferent in terms of CP theory, but make sure if you are going to defend multiple advocacies/ multiple advocacies that steal the AFF, you have strong defenses of them. 

DAs
Like them. The link needs be to intrinsic to the plan. I think DAs such as Spending and Politics sometimes get too generic and can easily be defeated. Good impact calculus is necessary, especially with cards and internal link/impact defense presses.

Ks
K's can be strategic and a great argument if it is well-explained with specific application to the AFF. I tend to lean on the side of policymaking & "we get the AFF" framework arguments. Many "cheap shot" arguments are dumb and can be beaten with analytics, but the AFF shouldn't drop them. This all being said, I am not familiar with a lot of Ks so a little more explanation than usual will be necessary. 

T
T debates are cool. Topicality should be a comparison of two visions of the topic and the types of arguments associated with those topics. Impact calculus is necessary. Even if the NEG wins the AFF doesn't meet their interpretation, you must explain to me the implications of that. Likewise for the AFF. Read lotsa cards, too. Reasonability is a question of whether your vision of debate is reasonable or not, not whether you are somewhat topical.
  