
  Any questions
rvu5@scarletmail.rutgers.edu

Princeton 2017: I haven’t heard spreading in 2 months, please start slowly and work your way up. I’ll say clear 3 times before I start dropping speaks. Also, I'm done being on email chains or being flashed. If I need to see evidence, I'll call for it. It's up to you to adapt to my ears.

Background: I debated for Montville Township High School for 4 years on both the local and national circuit. I never had much success on the national circuit, so take that as you will. I graduated in 2017. 

Plans/Das/CPs
These are the arguments I’m probably most familiar and comfortable evaluating. That being said, WEIGH, WEIGH, WEIGH, WEIGH, WEEEEEEEEEEIIIIIIIIIIGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHH. The more weighing=the better speaks, obviously. I'm okay with conditional arguments


Kritiks
1. I can understand most K lit. HOWEVER, if you’re reading something super super super dense, please explain explain explain. Don’t think I’ll just know what you’re talking about. 
2. Make sure to specifically link your opponent to whatever the K is. If you don’t, I buy any no link args automatically. 
3. I’m cool with ROB/ROJ. Please read your ROB/ROJ slowly
 a. If you run a Counter ROB/ROJ, PLEASE WEIGH
4. Performance K’s are kool

Phil
Please explain, I is stupid

Theory/T
This is the argument I’m least familiar with. I can understand basic theory, but you need to understand a few things
1. I have no defaults. It’s up to you to tell me what I should prefer if voting off the shell
2. Please be slow when reading the interp. If I don’t flow it, the round won’t be enjoyable for you.
3. Don’t read frivolous theory pls (things like speed bad theory). 
4. Theory in the 2AR is fine if you justify why
5. Disclosure theory? K. But please be a good shell and don't run that vs. a lone-wolf debater.
6. I suck at evaluating T

Theory vs. K
Not my place to say which comes first, you’re the debaters. 

Tricks on Tricks on Tricks on Tricks
Don’t mess with me. A decent spike should be well warranted and at least 10-15 seconds. If it doesn’t meet those general requirements, don’t read it 😊

Speaks
I’m not here to make it tough for you to break, I know how important speaks are. I’m generally lenient on speaks. However, a couple of things you need to keep in mind. 
1. It’s either Friday, Saturday, or Sunday, let’s make debate enjoyable. Making me laugh boosts your speaker points instantly. PLEASE LET ME ENJOY THE ROUND
2. Don’t be a racist/sexist/ablest jerk. I will spike your speaks so hard into the ground, my cousins in India will be able to feel the earthquake. 
3. Don’t be a jerk to a novice debater please. If you run theory or some weird argument they clearly don’t understand, I’ll drop your speaks and might even drop you, so don’t mess with that. I've already tanked speaks once this year for that, don't make me do it again. 

Misc.
1. If something that is 100% conceded is blatantly false, I will not vote off of it. Debate is as much about education as it is about other things. This is the only type of intervention I will do. 
2. Sit, stand, do jumping jacks, sing, I don't really care. As long as what you're doing is comfortable, I'm comfortable
3. Don't be rude to me if you don't agree with my decision. Every judge has a different perspective and it is YOUR responsibility to adapt to me, not vice versa. Just because you learned something new at camp, doesn't mean I know about it. Speaks can still be changed
4. Flashing is not prep time. However, if you take an unreasonable amount of time to flash, I will restart the prep clock
5. If you are going to spread like there's no tomorrow, it would probably be best to flash me
6. Out-of-round arguments suck. Plain and simple. I really don't want to hear it. Sorry not sorry
7. Clipping cards will make you hate me for what I do. Auto L 20
8. Claim/Warrant/Impact Extensions
  