
  Last Updated: RKS Camp Tournament,19 July 2016

Hello! My name is Char or Charlotte. Use they/them or he/him pronouns when referring to me. I debated for Princess Anne High School in Virginia Beach, VA from 2011-2015 as a 2N/1A. Nowadays, I go to Wake Forest University in my sophomore year, and I have been in both the 2A/1N and 2N/1A positions. While my high school career was largely uneventful, I debated in the 2016 NDT. My major is technically undeclared, but I plan to double major in history and communications and minor in political science. My debate interests of past and present include queer theory, gender, Marxism, and Heidegger.

Here are a few things I believe about debate:
Debate is a game, but it has important ramifications for its participants that can include education, advocacy skills, research skills, etc."Tech" is important, but endorsing racism, gender/sexual violence, ableism, and other historically-violent structures (this excludes "reverse oppression") with my ballot is unacceptable.Beyond this, the role of the ballot is to be cast for the team who successfully persuades the judge. The role of the judge is to determine who persuaded them.Debaters are best off reading the arguments with which they are the most comfortable, regardless of the leaning of a particular judge.An argument includes a claim, a warrant, and evidence. These components can be presented in many mediums, including affective performances.If one's argument cannot be explained to an audience with little to no experience in the field of literature, then the debater should choose a different argument."Clash of Civilizations" debates, like all debates, should actually have clash.Framework makes the game work, but framework isn't and shouldn't be confined to resolutional topicality violations with fairness and decision-making impacts.
A few pet peeves:
Referring to me as "judge."Loudly whispering to your partner during a speech.Throwing me weird looks when someone says something with which you disagree.Raising your voice to speak over someone in cross-ex.Arguing over whether or not your argument about a non-traditional aff being untopical is called "framework" or "topicality."These words and phrases: problematic, cold conceded, star this card, the debate space, portable skills (without defining what is included in that category).

And, since I'm really a positive person, a few things that I love to see and hear:
Persuasive expression when speaking.Partner synergy.Historical references to back up your evidence.Daring, but rewarding, strategic decisions.Clean organization.References to the following gems of pop culture: Pokemon, Bee Movie, Shrek.

I follow standard speaker point distribution. I'm not sure if I'll ever give a 30, and if you got lower than a 25 then you probably repeatedly said something fucked up.

Feel free to approach me or email me with questions at cvanschenck@gmail.com.
  