
  Former debater at Robert Vela HS (2013-2017) and current debater at the University of Texas at Austin.
E-mail: sarahvg@utexas.edu
This probably won't answer every question, so if you have any, I'm happy to answer them before the round starts!

Basic things to know:
 Be nice to each other during the round.Do whatever you do best.Clash is really cool and important.I prefer to see clear/deep analysis rather than reading a lot of cards - I (more than likely) won't vote you up just because you've read more cards than the other team (quality>quantity).Respond to line-by-line arguments if they come up.Frame the debate. Tell me how to vote - be clear about it and give me reasons.
Speed of Delivery:
 Spreading or UIL style is okay with me. Make sure I can understand the words you're saying - slow down on tags or transitions to other arguments (I flow on paper).

Arguments:
 I'm cool with any argument you decide to run, just remember to frame the debate.

Kritiks - I like K args that have specific links rather than generic links. If you're running a K, make sure you know how to explain it well.
Disads - Impacts are important, but internal links are even more important. Up-to-date uniqueness evidence is also super nice.
Case - Good arguments against the aff's inherency and/or solvency can win you the debate.
Counterplans - As long as it's competitive and specific (if possible), then run it.
Topicality - Include all the parts of a T argument and if you'd like me to vote on it, impact it out and compare standards.
Framework - Impacts!
Theory - If you're running theory blocks, don't go too fast. Show that you actually kind of care for the argument and tell me why it's better I vote your team up.
Condo - If you're going to call the other team out for abuse, explain to me how they make it impossible for you to respond to their args.

Other:
 I'm not so familiar with performance debate, so if you go this route, just make sure you apply/explain its content.UIL - I'm a tabula rasa judge. Run what'd you like! Be clear about the voting issues and tell me how you access the ballot.
  