
  Hello, all. I debated (LD) for three years at CRHS (Coon Rapids High School), a suburb of NW Minneapolis. My senior year I was (co)-captain along with Amanda Bryan, whom many of you probably know. I attended Macalester College (St. Paul, MN) for 2.5 years, before recently transferring to Metropolitan State (St. Paul, MN), where I am currently pursuing a B.S. in Computer Science.

Paradigm: Standard-heavy but only to the extent of how well-aggregated it is into your case; if V/S is a wash and we all know it, then save the verbiage for your contentions. Will consider definitions in round evaluation/RFD but only and exclusively directly proportional to how you present and implement them. Use the context of the resolution. Stay on point--I'm no-nonsense. Don't b.s. me; I will c rite thru u. Refrain from being too 'cute' in CX; it is abusive and unfair to your opponent and I will NOT look kindly upon it. Kritiks are fine but worthless: a) without impact, or b) if you make them exponentially abstract (*E.G. multiple conditional off-cases, abusive/impossible-for-your-opponent-to-defend theoretical counterarguments, et cetera). I already know none of you will listen to me but at least try not to accelerate the scope of the resolution into the fourth dimension. Evidence is great; enunciate who the hell you're quoting so I can actually flow it--but don't be 100% rote when spewing your platitudes--ur not in third grade so don't act like it. Statistics is/are awesome but if trite and non-meaningful then just...well...save it, I guess, especially since I have a fairly vast knowledge of it and the bulk of my day job is spent tutoring AP Statistics. Speed is absolutely fine but if I say 'clear' you will slow down a few WPMs or I will keep interrupting you. Don't abuse the word 'extend' without actually providing impact as this is very irritating. Sign-posting well is a plus. Be succinct and clear when crystallizing: if you want me to seriously consider a relevant voting issue(s)--especially in 2AR--you'd better put some time into it; in other words, you should always err on the side of brevity, since I wholeheartedly believe that two or three well-articulated voting issues is better than having a randomized, abusive 'grocery list' of six or seven. Don't put words in your opponent's mouth unless it is absolutely merited. I disclose after rounds but I do not owe you anything else besides what I heard, wrote, and saw. Remember--I'm using three of my five senses here just like you are.

If you can adhere to my vantage point within reason then we can have fun and crack jokes all day.

Best,



Alex V.
  