
  Updated: Pre-Yale Tournament, 9/14/2015.

Update Pre-Yale 2015
The last tournament I judged was Yale last year. What does that mean? Mostly, take it slow-ish to start. I will say clear or slow. None of my philosophies have changed, but LD may have; if you're running something that has been invited in the past year, just do it, but explain it well. I won't give you the benefit of the doubt if I don't understand.

Background
I debated for 4 years on the National Circuit for Stuyvesant High School, graduating in 2014. I now attend Yale University.

Pref Me If
You enjoy engaging philosophical debate.

Don't Pref Me If
You stole your sketchy a-strat from Scarsdale and are going to execute a worse version of such.

If anything is unclear or not covered here, ask me before round, shoot me a message on Facebook, or email me at sweyn.venderbush@yale.edu. I'm also happy to discuss any round you were involved in after the fact if you email me.

Short Version
Be clear, make interesting arguments, be engaging. Don't be offensive.

General Stuff and My Favorite Things
I am not a good flow-er. Never was. If you consider yourself one of the top 10 fastest people in the country, it might be worth going 80%-90% in front of me. I will yell clear/slow a certain number of times and when I get frustrated I will stop flowing. Slow down for tags and authors.In that vein, I am not a fan of arguments that make no sense in a constructive and suddenly get very clear in later speeches. That isn't to say that I won't vote for these arguments but I will have a strong bias against them and will also dock your speaks for not being able to explain them clearly the first time.My favorite thing is really good framework clash. I was a big framework debater and enjoy interesting (philosophical or otherwise) frameworks and good comparison.Being nice is a plus in my book. As is being funny. Trying to be funny and actually being rude instead is a big no-no.Don't be offensive.  I won't vote for offensive arguments and will be very likely to drop you. Period. That being said, if your opponent is being offensive, don't leave it to me to intervene. Make some sort of responsive argument about why it is offensive and why that is bad, be it a shell or just paragraph theory. I was enjoy this discussion taking place in a round and giving the "offender" a chance to defend himself.I will vote on presumption.
Larp
I enjoyed supplementing my A-strat with a lot of DAs junior and senior year.My issue with most larp-y debates is that the evidence comparison is usually pretty poor. But if you are one of the Adam Tomasi's of the world and can engage in a very comparative util debate, I enjoy watching these rounds.
Theory
I only initiated a handful of theory debates in my entire debate career. I don't mind a good theory debate; it just isn't my favorite thing. If theory is the A-strat I'm probably not the best judge for you.I default to reasonability, drop the argument.I am more open to RVIs than most judges in my opinion.
Critical Arguments
I enjoy good critical debates and engaged in them a lot my senior year. That being said, I am not super familiar with the literature and definitely hold you to a higher standard of explanation than, say, a util aff.
Speaks
I don't like how inflated speaks have gotten in LD. That being said, I don't think it is fair to punish you for it.Less than a 27 means you will have a win or 2 at this tournamentA 27 means you should be in a bubble round or close.A 28 means you should break.A 29 means you should win more than 1 elim round.A 30 means you should win the tournament or at least be in finals.
Dressing Well
I like to think I dressed really well when I debated (and like to think I still do).I also like it when other people dress well and may give you half a speak if I like your style.I won't dock you speaks if you are sloppily dressed unless you aren't wearing pants.
Arguments I Hate
Resumption (This isn't a typo for presumption. If you haven't heard of it, you probably aren't running it)List to be appended to as I hear arguments I hate
This is not the be-all, end-all of my opinions on debate and will be updated as I run into things I like or dislike. If you have a question, ask it! If you are going to do something sketchy, ask but presume against doing it.
  