
  I am a policy judge with over ten years of judging experience and six years of debating experience (3 years HS at Bloomington Jefferson, MN and 3 years at Arizona State). I worked for the USFG for six years; now, I'm a law student.

I have very little tolerance for arrogant and mean behavior in the debate round. I will hit your speaker points and/or pull the trigger against a team who demonstrates this sort of behavior. Pointed argumentation and good-natured humor is expected/encouraged -- just don't be a jerk.

I view debate as a fun, strategic game. I'll listen to and consider voting for just about any argument. I enjoy judging debate rounds in which there is meaningful and developed argumentation and clash, so I would encourage you to consider this when choosing your in-round strategy. You must clearly explain any argument that you hope to win in the round, along with the reason(s) why I should vote for it.

I'm generally ok with speed as long as you are clear. If I can't understand you, I will give you one verbal warning. After that, I will just put my pen down. Don't speed through your blocks (especially theory blocks) if you care about those arguments: if you want me to vote on them, it's your responsibility to ensure I capture your arguments on my flow. I'm pretty easy to read, but that requires you to look at me, on occasion, during your speeches.

I keep fairly strict time in the round when it comes to starting/stopping prep and cross-x. Teams must be set up and ready to begin the round on time.

I don't coach, and I judge recreationally, so don't assume I know arguments or acronyms that are specific to this year's resolution.

A good, in-depth discussion of the decision calculus will help you to more easily win my ballot, and the earlier this appears, the better (ideally, the 2AC/neg block or earlier).

My approach for speaker points: You default at 27. Excellent diction, good impact/decision analysis, and appropriate humor will increase your score. Muddled arguments, lack of signposting, and disrespectful behavior will decrease your score. I rarely give points outside of the 27±2 range.

Please feel free to ask me anything about my judging paradigm before the round! Let's have some fun! :)
  