
  (Leah Clark-Villanueva, or Leah Clark-Villa. Depends on the tournament and sometimes they get it wrong but here I am.)


High School: Policy debate at LA Metro Debate League

College: Policy debate at CSU Fullerton

Coach: HS policy, HS LD, MS speech, MS PuFo

Partner: Natalie Stolarski

Args I've run and/or very familiar with: Settler colonialism/displacement (asian women, specifically pinay), trans rage, Nietzsche, Baudrillard, Foucault, DG...


I don't lean towards K debates vs Traditional debates more. Debate how you want, but do the work and make clear distinctions on voters, impact, solvency, links, etc. 

I did traditional debate in high school but moved to K debates in college. I have a better lit background on K affs and arguments but will vote on CPs, DAs, and T if it applies and the work is done. Case extensions, clash, impact scenarios, WHY your educational value is better than the other team, etc. are all important things to discuss during round. 


Basics:

Extend arguments. If you bring it up in the 1A/N but it never gets mentioned anywhere else but your 2AR/NR, it's dropped. 

I have a very strong disdain for condo arguments. It's weak an doesn't create enough clash in debate. It doesn't mean I won't vote for it, but you'll have to really convince me why it's absolutely necessary for debate and education. 


Ethos is important. 

Quality over quantity is always better; don't run 6 offs and read a few cards on each and expect strong arguments. 

Debate however you want, but if your arguments and CX is bigoted then you will get lower speaks. 

Paperless: I stop time after the flash gets taken out of your laptop or you indicate that you're just sending the email. I'm pretty lenient with this as I understand how frustrating computer problems may be, but if I sense a team is abusing this and not using prep, then I start time again.


CPs/DAs

Pretty basic and straightforward. I need specific reasons why the perm won't work. 



T/FW

I'm more inclined to vote for FW over T, but if you decide to go for T, make it clear how the AFF is abusive, how it's unfair, and don't run generic T arguments that make you sound whiny. If you encounter critical and performance AFFs, I like seeing engagement with the arguments rather than fixating on how they're not topical. Again, I have voted on T before but going for T in the 2NR has got to be one hell of a strong case.


Kritiks 

I enjoy K debates when you know your case and not a filler K that you decided to run. Know your alt. Why do you solve better? Why are you mutually exclusive? Why are you a prerequisite to the plan/advocacy? 


Debate is where you get to talk about what you want to discuss. I enjoy pettiness, sarcasm, and sassiness. Bonus speaks if you make me laugh deliberately, not cause you said something that makes no sense. 
  