
  I debated for Monticello High School (NY) for 4 years (2008-2012). I did LD from 2008-2010 and PF from 2010-2012. Since graduating I have judged both LD and PF, so take that as you will.

LD:

I enjoy a good framework debate and prefer when I have a clear link story. Write my ballot for me and show me why you are clearly winning.

WEIGH.

I will vote off any type of argument just make sure it's warranted and explained well enough so I can understand it.

I pretty much don't care what you do as long as you make your intentions known, just make sure it is okay with your opponent a (flex prep, sitting/standing etc.)

I am not really good at flowing when people spread and I am not well read on most of the evidence you will read so if you choose to spread I'll probably miss a lot and I most likely won't understand what you're going to say. Also, I don't care if you run theory or that you're progressive in terms of your strat, just know if it is confusing or not explained well and you spread I will probably miss a lot. 

Be able to have cites and evidence available if your opponent or the judge asks to see it.

Please do not be rude, this is the biggest way to make me mad and lose speaker points.

I generally give 28's and higher.


PF:

Don't shake my hand, please. I feel awkward. 

WEIGH.

Be nice to your opponents. 

Please, remember the summary should summarize the round, so tell me the most important things going on rather than trying to respond to everything. 

Again, I will vote off any type of argumentation (so long as it abides by the rules) but please, these abusive frameworks are annoying and will reflect in your speaker points. It is especially annoying if you have an abusive framework stemming from something like a definition because it is often unwarranted or not warranted well. If you fail to respond these abusive frameworks and your opponent wins, it will reflect in your speaker points as well!

While this is not LD you still need to extend claim, warrants and impacts.

Don't make arguments in crossfire or read evidence.

Just ask any other questions you may have and good luck!

I vote off the content in the final focus. 

Remember to have fun and ask more questions if needed. Good luck!
Quick note: I may look uninterested, like I am day dreaming, like I am staring off into space or angry, rude, mean etc. -- That is just my face. I am paying attention to you and my facial expression is just very limited.
  