
  erik walker
I am currently a debater for Concordia College. I debated for Henry Sibley High School in West Saint Paul. This is my 7th year of policy debate. I have had my share of competitive success, won some tournaments/ some top speaker awards. I will avoid building myself up for you. I have judged 4 rounds on the topic so please avoid acronyms or more generally assumed knowledge of the topic.
I am confident that I can judge the majority of types of debate. I have backgrounds that will affect how I resolve some issues. I think you would do well to do you rather than attempting to do me. I am an ok flow, I will say clearer if I am having problems. If I call cards I will value the interpretation for the team with the best spin as long as it isn’t an outlandish interpretation. 
However, things that are NOT ok:
Rudeness- if you truly believe debate is good; than you should understand you have no more right to the activity than anyone else. 
Racism/sexism good impact turns- I will not flow and your speaker points will be worse than if you hadn't given the speech at all.
Topicality- I will enter your debates with no knowledge of what the topic means. I will know what words are in the resolution, but I do not believe the resolution comes pre-packaged. I have a higher standard than most judges to refuse the aff a ballot based on their selection of content. 
TLDR; I am in the reasonability camp. 
Theory- Conditionality is ok to a degree; I am all about that in round abuse. Please don’t read your blocks at 200+ words a minute- unless you want me to flow every other argument. Still a high threshold for many of these arguments. If you spend 15sec on it in the first speech it is presented than I will think you are hoping the other team drops it and it will be not very persuasive at all. Perm theory- reject argument not the team- generally a good argument. 
DA/ CP- Go for it! Not my cup of tea as a debater but good arguments. I am persuaded by intelligent analytical arguments that take out a large part of the internal link stories to the DA. I also think if a position is silly that there is such a thing as total defense. 
K’s- This sort of debate is where I have been the majority of my debate life. I enjoy the one off strategies. However, especially in debate at the High School level, I believe that you have a burden of explanation so that the story/ thesis of your criticism is present AT LEAST by the 2NC (for those who like alternative 1NC performance). Normally judges will tell you the authors that they have backgrounds with- I think that should not matter because your opponents should not be required to have my knowledge of those subjects. 
Performance- Go for it. Don’t be silly. Performance debates should not be for performative’s sake and should be ready to build a robust defense of your pedagogy. 
  