
  1. OVERVIEW
I identify as a fairly standard tabula rasa judge who strongly believes in the principle of non-intervention. Put another way, I think the best analogy for a debate judge is not a subjective evaluator of an oratorical performance but rather a referee who insures that everyone plays by the basic rules of the game but lets the victor of the contest be determined by the competitors themselves. However, I don't think that being an absolutely blank slate, no matter how ideologically pure it may seem, is a particularly feasible way to adjudicate complex debate rounds. As such, I have a set of loose assumptions to which I default absent relevant argumentation but you should feel more than welcome to contest them in-round. While I think most of my defaults are pretty much the par for the national circuit, I encourage you to read the specific sections below that pertain to strategies you're thinking of running in front of me. That said, I feel that there do exist four non-negotiable rules: 1) times and order of speeches, 2) there is one aff, one neg, and one winner, 3) debaters must act professionally and refrain from deliberatively offensive behavior, and 4) debaters may not advocate morally abhorrent positions (e.g., "genocide good").

2. ABOUT ME
My name is Benjamin Wallach and I participated in LD for the Montclair Kimberley Academy in Montclair, NJ.

3. COMPUTERS IN-ROUND
All good. 

4. EVIDENCE & EXTENSIONS
I don't care if you have cards or analytics. Be sure to extend the claim and impact. Explain how the argument functions in the round.

5. FRAMEWORK
I really enjoy a good framework debate but please don't ready your 17 point AT:Util dump unless you really have to.

6. IN-ROUND
Be nice. Speed is fine. I don't care if you sit or stand.

7. KRITIKS
I like them a lot but they need a strong link and some sort of framework for me to evaluate them. Please explain them clearly.

8. PLANS & COUNTER-PLANS
Do what you want.

 9. SPEAKER POINTS
30- You have a good shot at winning the tournament 29- You have a good shot at getting to mid/late out rounds.28- You have a good shot at clearing.27- You probably won't clear.26- You may go winless25- You were blatantly offense.

10. THEORY
I default to reasonability, drop the argument, and counter-interps/I-meets don't trigger an RVI. If the shell you're running is blatantly frivolous, expect your speaks to somewhat suffer.
  