
  Currently attending UC Berkeley. 
I debated LD 4 years for MVLA, went to TOC my senior year. I can flow most speeds but you MUST be clear. If you are unclear or too fast I will yell 'clear' or 'too fast' once. After that it is your responsibility to be clearer and to prevent any flowing errors. Minimally, slow down for card tags and authors, since cards I can read after the round is over. I will generally read all cards that come into question, time permitting.
KRITIKS: MUST MUST be slow. If you are unsure how slow to go look at me. I will be sitting there not writing and with a blank stare on my face. This is not to say I won't vote on these cases, just make sure I'm understanding it. 


I will vote for most arguments as long as it is warranted and won (Except the ones I point out in this paradigm). However, I will look harder for a way out if your argument is blatantly illogical. I will evaluate the round based on what the framework debate tells me. Absent any framework I vote based on which criterion is won. In addition, if there are any definitional/standards arguments that are unresolved/circular I will look to who (if anyone) is winning under both interpretations first. I'd prefer not to intervene on one side but if the argument is completely and utterly unresolved I will choose the side that I think is more correct. Also: don't use Aff framework choice to justify your standard/metaethical system. I will only vote for this if no arguments are made against it and you'll still get bad speaks. 

Theory: I will vote on theory arguments as long as they are well warranted. I'd prefer proper T-shells with an interp, violation, standards, voter. This is just easier for me to flow and so easier for me to evaluate. I have a high threshold for potential abuse voters. RVI's must be warranted well if you want me to vote on them (so no one sentence RVI's). Note that I will not vote on the argument "drop my opponent because he/she has no explicit counter-interp" absent a really good warrant. I will usually just assume the counter interp is NOT the interp. 

Weighing is awesome because it makes my work easier, which means I'll make a better decision. 

My speaker points range between 27-29. To get above a 29 you have to earn it. Same with below a 27.
  