
  IF YOU ARE AT THE STANFORD 2016 INVITATIONAL, THIS IS THE CHRISTINE WANG YOU ARE LOOKING FOR

Debated LD for 4 years for Lynbrook High School. A philosophy/business major at NYU now and havent touched spreading in 3 years. So, if you are gripping the edge of the table, red in the face, voice way higher than usual, taking too many doublebreaths because you can't breathe, and very unclear, I may just have to drop my pen and give up (but that doesn't mean I'm encouraging any "anti-speed" arguments). 
Make impact analysis clear and concise. Treat me almost like an advanced philosophy-loving pf judge. I want to hear real world impacts not any fancy theoretical nonsence. Slow down for your authors. Sass and humor are fine but be polite (I will not hesitate to give a low point win if you are are rude or you are a TOC champion unncesssarily trying to intimidate a younger/less experienced opponent). Efficient signposting, extending & clear taglines are CRUCIAL. I like when debaters can point out logical fallacies.I really don't mind theory, but save it for real abuse (especially if you're clearly a more experienced debater and are too lazy to engage because you know you could easily win with your 30 page doc of T shells) In the case of real abuse I will definitely be sympathetic. If you do go for T, it should be a situation where the abuse is worth spending a good amount of time on (because youre genuinely frustrated) rather than using it as a strategy/backup plan for an easy win.Your 2nr/2ar should determine how I evaluate the round. Overviews are great.Do NOT try to assert your opponent dropped a point when they didn't.I value depth in argument over a large volume of technical arguments.DA: good link stories, super specific links, solid impact analysis — yes!!I wont time your road map, but dont make it more than 2 sentences. I swear if you stand up and say "8 off" I will cry. Counterplans are great if you have a convincing net benefit story. I will only say 'clear' twice I will not flow cx (if you're good friends with your opponent, please have fun during CX and be as sassy as you want)I'm strict on time. Do not drink your water for too long during transition times (or when answering questions), do not fumble around with your papers, do not use any tricks to skew time in your favorI love a good framework debate PS: It’ll help us both if you make me laugh!

PPS: I absolutely love analogies...I also love cats, take that how you will. 
Last of all, please have fun! 
  