
  Hello, I’m David Wang and I debated 4 years for Scarsdale High School and my proudest moment in debate was being deemed a “debate nihilist”.
Short Version: I couldn’t quite flow as a debater and I haven’t been in debate for about 8 months, so I probably can’t flow top speed. Read whatever you want I pretty much read everything in debate except analytic philosophy so I’m open to pretty much anything. My goal is to intervene as little as possible.
Arguments I will not vote for:
1. Blatantly Offensive Ones (skep/permissibility are fine)2. Brackets Bad (you will get a loss 1)3. TBD – I think I am fine with most arguments in debate but then again who knows what awfulness was created during camp this year.
Long Version:
Speed: I never really flowed I will give you a ton of leeway on speed/clarity if a) you flash me your cases and b) You slow down on tag-lines/subpoints (who flows warrants anyways). I believe that you should make your case accessible to the other debater if you plan on going fast.
Logical Comprehension: While most judges have an absurd expectation of actually understanding the arguments in debate, and refusing to vote on arguments they don’t understand, I feel that doing so restricts the creativity and potential of debaters. As a result, I will be willing to vote for arguments where I understand the claim and the implication but not the warrant unless the other debater points out that the arguments is incoherent. Tread carefully here, because if it’s so confusing that I don’t understand the implication I can’t really do anything with the argument even if it’s conceded/won.
Extensions – If you’re extending generic stuff like impact cards or util fw warrants just extend the tag line and author name, if an entire advantage/disadvantage is conceded completely I am fine with just saying something like ‘extend the econ DA”. Extend specific cards if you will be using them for weighing/impact calc.
Framework Debate – In the absence of a clearly won framework or in the case where both debaters concede framework indicts I will default to skep (because let’s be real here skep is true), skep triggers permissibility, and permissibility negates. These are just my defaults I am definitely willing to vote on things like skep triggers presumption and presumption affirms, etc.
Tricky Debate: If it’s conceded and cleanly extended I’ll vote on it. If both sides decide to have a tricky round I have no qualms about voting on presumption or flipping a coin if it just devolves into both debaters just saying their argument comes first.
Theory Debate: I default competing interps, drop the debater on T and theory, and no RVI. 
K Debate: I read a little bit but not nearly enough to actually know all the arguments so you should explain them, especially if it complicated/dense. I default to the text of the Role of the Ballot to evaluate offense. I am fine with non-topical affs, although I would prefer not voting on straight-up micropol.
K vs Theory: I was on both sides of this debate in my career, and if both sides just read their dumps without engaging then don’t be surprised if the decision/speaks aren’t what you wanted them to. A bit of interaction goes a long way in these types of debates, especially on the inevitable extension of arguments that “preclude”.
CX: You mean flex prep? jk do whatever you want during flex prep whether it’s trying to get concessions, theory violations, or just stalling and trolling.
Academic Integrity: I think Academic Integrity claims have often become a cop out of actually answering arguments. I am totally fine with straw-manned/miscut philosophical arguments. If you miscut empirical evidence I will give you 20 speaks and disregard every card you read during the round. 
Speaker Points: Speaker Points will be based on technical skill and how much I enjoyed the round. Bringing me food/drinks makes me enjoy rounds more. Also if you can beat me in Hearthstone I’ll give you 0.5 speaks higher.
Misc: If one debater extends 10 blippy arguments against one well-warranted argument, I really don’t know who I’d vote for. I guess it depends if the debater extending the 10 blippy arguments interacts with the well-warranted argument and vice versa. Oh and debaters should have advocacy texts.
If you have any questions you can talk to me before the round/message me on fb/e-mail me at nihilum12345@gmail.com
  