
  Background
I debated in high school at Northside College Prep through 2009. I have coached and judged for Northside since then.

General Philosophy
Debate should be educational. I'm perfectly fine judging debate as a game, but I'm far more interested in a debate about real issues. What's real? The usual stuff - econ, hege, warming, even Heidegger!, etc. - is all real issues, but I don't honestly believe these issues are closely related to nuclear war or universal value to life. I want to be clear - my severe distaste for nuke war and similarly extreme impacts probably plays out similarly as the distaste a lay judge has for debate hyperbole, but the motivations are different. I love policy debate like crazy and I think the activity can be so much more than tired and repetitive delusions. If you can't supply a reason for why economic health is important aside from nuclear annihilation, I feel that you're not taking the question of policy analysis seriously.

In practice, this means that the single strongest argument you can make in front of me is a logical argument. I'll take a well reasoned analytic link press any day over a 2NC card dump on politics. In my experience, many judges say this, but I actually mean it. I don't see anything insurmountably sacred about evidence that an analytic can't take it out 100%. Speed is fine, but I tend to find that speed is misused in many speeches - especially rebuttals. The point of speed is to fit more good arguments into a time-constrained speech, not to overwhelm your opponents (and me) with many mediocre, undeveloped positions. I'm very appreciative of a relatively slow, well thought out and thorough rebuttal speech.

Any other questions, feel free to ask before the round! I think the concept of a perfectly tab judge is cute, but hopelessly futile. Every judge has internal biases, some are just more willing than others to spell them out. So if you want to know my specific leaning on a particular position, please ask, I'm more than happy to let you know.
  