
  I debated LD for a small school in Arizona, from 2008-2011, then went on to coach local and circuit LD from 2011-2012, before coaching privately for curcuit-level students 2012-2015 when I retired. From 2016 on I only judge infrequent tournaments in the Los Angeles area when I have a free weekend.

I will ask you to email your cases in one thread (that means use "reply all") with me on CC. I will not consider evidence that is read but is not sent via email using this format. If you have a problem with emailing your case, strike me.
 
I've heard and voted on every kind of argument imaginable, at any speed. I'm tabula rasa, so the only thing I don't want you to do is be rude or offensive. I loved running Ks and Theory when I was in my prime, but I also could do the traditional NFL-era LD style too, so any style will work in front of me, so long as you execute it well.
That said, I'm not coaching anymore, so I'm probably not going to know your authors as well, nor will I be as well-read on the topic or whatever arguments are in style at the time. Consequently, you'll probably want to go a little slower with me, and think bigger picture. I like it when the final speeches write my RFD for me. Don't get upset with me when you lose after you wanted me to vote on an issue you didn't spend enough time explaining in your last speech. Going for 3 or more voters on 3 or more sheets is a sure-fire way to know you're not spending enough time explaining those issues to me in your rebuttal.
Ask questions before the round if you need to. I'm cool with flex prep or different lengths of prep (unless prohibited by tournament rules) so long as it's agreed upon before the 1AC. Unless flex prep has been declared before the round, CX is the only binding discussion time; I do not listen to chatter during prep.


On trigger warnings: If your case contains material that might trigger someone, please disclose the warning before the round, so that any members of the audience have a chance to leave before you read something that may trigger them. If you are a debater and there is an issue that may trigger you, please ask to speak with me, and tell me before the round. If I am approached before the round about a trigger, this is the only instance in which I will consider asking a debater not to run a position, and even then, I will talk to each debater and ensure that there is a fair resolution for everyone. (I will not ask debaters to stop reading a certain argument after the round has begun.)
Ask me questions before the round if you're not sure about anything!

  