
  I debated for 4 years at Coeur d'Alene High School and now I judge in the Couer d'Alene Spokane circuits.

General Stuff:
Do what you're best at. The best and most enjoyable debates can only happen when everyone is completely comfortable with the arguments they are using. So don't try to modify your strategy to the point that you don't feel comfortable with the argument that you're making. If you like to run kritiks go for it. If you like theory do that. I'm a pretty easy going guy so I'll do my best to evaluate any argument that you put in front of me.Ultimately I'll vote on whatever you put in front of me provided that it isn't a totally ridiculous argument that you're reading just for the lols. If you run the beef disad for example with the intent to win with it, I'll vote on it if you win the argument, if you read the beef disad with the intent of screwing with the other team I will have no problem voting you down for wasting my time or your opponent's time. If you do these things, we'll get along swimmingly.Organization is very important to me. Make it very clear when you are moving on to a different argument because if you don't it might not go on the right piece of paper and that may or may not be the piece of evidence that determines the outcome of the round.If there is an email chain being used in the round, please add me. chrisward135@live.comYour prep time stops when the flash drive leaves the laptop. If it gets excessive, I will start prep again.Don't clip cards. Just don't.I will very rarely call for cards after a round but if I do it's because I think it's important to the round or it's because you asked me to for whatever reason you may have.Speed is fine. If I can't understand you, I will say "clear". If I still cannot understand you I will put down my pen and stop flowing you. Don't make me do this.Be considerate in the round. It just helps the round be more productive.I believe that judge intervention is necessary only in the most extreme of cases (so this should rarely happen). If the other team trying to sell me something really scummy that's overly abusive I will have no problem voting them or you down for it. So don't do that.If you have any questions after the round I would love to talk with you just find me or email works too.
Case Debate:
Personally, I feel that this part of debate is no longer viewed as important in rounds as it should be and that makes me sad. If you want to go for the solvency or inherency arguments, I think that those are awesome. More power to you. These are some of the arguments that I tend to default to first when evaluating the round unless told not to. There are always interesting and substantive topic related arguments to use, the more topic specific the better.

Disads:
I also feel like disadvantages are slowly losing their spot in the policy debate world when they are totally amazing and can often really [[#|create]] good clash the affirmative's case. Just make sure if that you can explain the link and impact to anything you have. The politics DA is one of my favorites but make sure you have current evidence for it. I've seen people use evidence from a year from that point in time and it was really sad.

Counterplans:
Just like everything else, the more topic specific the better. I won't object to a well prepared reg neg or states counterplan though. I know that there are times when these types of things can work really well against your opponent so go for it. Also make sure that you are able to explain to me why the counterplan is true test of the affirmative and why it isn't a time suck to only kick in the 2nr.

Kritiks:
I never really was a big fan of kritiks in high school but that doesn't mean I'll hate on you or vote you down because you ran one in front of me. I just need you explain to me your argument clearly and not assume that I know your author and everything about them because I'm telling you right now I don't. However, if you do a good job and explain it correctly to where I can understand then I'll vote for you just like any other argument. I also won't say that I won't listen to any specific authors so you do you boo.

Topicallity:
Intricate and technical T debates are fun and are generally pretty heated. I also generally default to competing interps, Just make sure that you keep explaining to me why your interpretation is the best for debate and why it's better for education. Extending you impacts like limits and ground loss are also appreciated. Please don't use T as a time suck either. If you are going to go for it, you should be spending more time on it than just 1-2 minutes of your 13 minutes of total speaking time in the block.

Theory:
This was probably one of my favorite things to go for in rounds. Like T make sure you are able to impact it correctly and explain to me why them breaking the rules is bad or why the rules need to be broken. The problem is theory debates are just vomited out and I can't understand what is going on in the round. Just make sure you actually take the time to explain your argument in the rebuttals because that's where arguments like this really shine. That being said, please don't read those awful PICs like "should" or "government". There are wayyyyyy better theory arguments that you can make that will get you further in the round in my opinion.
The number one reason why good teams lose on theory (in my opinion) is that they automatically concede to playing by the other team's rules. If they are making a bunch of rule changing and limiting arguments, there is no reason why you can't do the same. Just keep a calm head, there is usually a logical analytical argument that you can go for in addition to cards. I am usually pretty easy to persuade when it comes to these from either side.

K Affs/Performance:
While I don't have a lot of experience with either of these things, I will try to evaluate your arguments as best I can. However I am of the belief that any affirmative must have some sort of plan text or make it explicitly clear as to what it is that you are advocating for. Also it helps to be more topic specific on these types of arguments so don't be surprised when you get T and Framework run against you if it isn't. If you don't have a lot of experience with debating this type of argument either, just remember to treat it like any other debate round tell me why their interpretation of the future status quo is bad and why the current status quo is better.

As always just remember to have fun because at the end of the day it's just a way for all of us to get out and enjoy ourselves and do something that we all love. It's just all part of the game we all play :]
  