
  Andre Washington
Rowland Hall St. Marks
Assistant Coach

Seven years in debate, this will be my third year with Rowland Hall.

I love debate and want students to love it as well.

Do what you want, and do it well.

IMPORTANT BLAKE 2016 CHANGES: After 4 years of judging a wide range of debate styles, I think I've come to the conclusion that I just can't connect with or enjoy high theory debate. Being able to act as an educator is an important reason for why I judge, and I don't think I can offer that in your Baudrilliard debates anymore. Sorry, not sorry. 




So that's the quick version, here are my detailed thoughts on specific arguments:

Kritiks:
 I am fine with the K.

I like the K as it functions in a greater neg strategy (ie, I'd rather judge a 5 off round that includes a K than a 1 off K round). However, I went 1-off fem K in highschool for many rounds, so I am genuinely pretty accepting on this issue. Given that I don't spend a great deal of my time working through K literature, I think it's important that you explain these to me, but that's basically what a good K debater should expect to do anyway.

Disads:
 I cut politics every week. I love both sides of the politics debate and can benefit you as a judge on how to execute these debates well.

Counterplans:
 Counterplans of all shapes and sizes are a critical place to form a strategy and I enjoy these debates.

Topicality:
 I think that debaters who can execute "technical" args well are enjoyable enough to watch and judge, and I think I can probably benefit as a judge to any technical debater. I think that any violation, on face, has validity and there are no affs that are so "obviously" topical that they cannot be beaten on T.

Kritikal affs:
 I am not ideologically opposed to K affs at all and even enjoy these debates, although I primarily work on and with policy affs so I would say explanation is still key.

Framework:
 I find that good framework debaters know how to make the flow accessible to the judge. I think that there are a number of compelling claims and debates to be had on framework, and they can be just as strongly argued as anything else (including your kritik or kritikal aff).
  