
  I debated for three years for Presentation High School in Northern California in Public Forum. Here are a few ways you can make me like you more if I'm judging you: 
Acknowledge the fact that you're in a debate round. Don't just repeat your framework, evidence, and arguments, over and over again. Respond to the responses put on your case. This seems obvious, but it doesn't happen in many PF rounds. I will flow the round, and when I debated I spoke relatively quickly (normally around an 1100 word case). I'm okay with some level of speed, but please don't spread. If I stop writing and just look at you with a confused/annoyed look on your face, you're probably speaking too fast. I'll notice if you bring up something new in final focus, and I expect any argument in final focus to have been in summary.I'd like to see responses to first rebuttal in second rebuttal. However, I don't think that the second speaker rebuttal has to completely respond to the first one; you can make new responses in summary if necessary. Different judges have different preferences on this, so you should definitely ask other judges how they feel about new responses in second speaker summary. I don't flow crossfire, so if something happened, bring it up in a speech. I will absolutely vote on framework if you give me a reason to do so. If you're running one, run it at the top of your case (rather than in rebuttal) and discuss any framework clash in first crossfire. I want framework dealt with early in the round, clashing/unwarranted frameworks in final focus make it significantly harder for me to make a decision and make it significantly more likely that you'll dislike the one I make. In general - you don't want me doing much work for you. I'll call for cards if they're contested, but only on arguments extended through final focus. If you have any questions about my preferences beyond this, feel free to ask before the round. I'll answer whatever, because you knowing what I like will make both of us happier. Cite Northwestern and I'll give you an extra speaker point. Go 'Cats. 
  