
  Hays Watson
 
Hays Watson, Head Debate Coach at the University of Georgia. 

My primary goal is to evaluate the arguments made in the debate. That being said, I'm a teacher at heart and I'll also offer suggestions for how you can improve. That's why I still write full ballots...even though they rarely end up in the hands of the debaters.

I won't go line by line regarding my preferences...but here are some, simply-stated:

Clarity trumps speed...the best debaters are able to achieve both.

Substance trumps style...but not by much. And they're inextricably linked.

Evidence matters...but not more than logical, analytical arguments. Many positions (case advantages, politics, etc.) can best be defeated with smart, analytical responses. Use your brain.

My preference is that Affirmatives advocate topical action. Specific plans of action are preferable over vague/generic policy suggestions. Yes, that means I still appreciate ASPEC.

Process questions determine substantive questions. The "who" of action does, in fact, determine the effectiveness of "what" action is being taken.

I'm increasingly frustrated by the relative absence of debates about important theoretical questions. Topicality no longer is seen as a strategic Negative tool. Affirmatives consistently refuse to challenge the theoretical legitimacy of various negative positions (conditionality, politics DAs, kritiks, etc.). Why?

The politics DA frustrates me. 

Impact defense alone is an insufficient way to answer an argument. I'm confused as to how case attacks based solely around impact defense have become the "norm." The best argumentative strategies involve mixture of offensive and defensive responses. "No impact" doesn't cut it.

Effective cross-examination is still the most underutilized tool in debate. Poor, un-strategic cross-ex questions (and responses) make me sad.

I'd rather here a DA/CP strategy than a kritik almost any day of the week. But a case-specific kritik supported by high-quality evidence is an important strategic tool.

I love debate. I presume you do to. Good luck.

P.S. If you haven't thought about applying to UGA for college, you should--top 20 public university, beautiful campus (with great people), arguably the best college town in America, and a great debate team with the best squad room in the country (I'd bet money). Any questions? Feel free to ask :-).
  