
  Christy Webster
USMA
Number of rounds on the topic (2006-2007): 70-75
Years Judging College: 4

Topicality: My default is that topicality is about competing
interpretations of the resolution. Prove that yours is more net
beneficial and provide an impact and you win the debate. I think of
this as an evaluative tool for discerning T debates and it applies to
non-traditional aff's as well, unless the debaters provide me with
another framework. Spec args are fine also.

Kritiks: For me, most times good critical debates that center around a
position that has an alternative come down to offense (disads) to the
permutation vs. in roads against the "solvability" of that
alternative. It's vital to garner some offense against the links that
the permutation doesn't solve for and for the negative to implicate
those links as disads to the permutation. I'd prefer not to feel as
though I have to read a ton of your cards at the end of a round to
synthesize your argument. My preference is to read evidence that is
the focus of the finals rebuttals. I don't often flow author names
since I feel as though it leads to me being confused between the 8
pieces of Agamben evidence on my flow.

Disads: I heart a really involved DA/CP debate. I often think some of
the best deployment of the DA involves interacting the disad impact
with the case. Please take the time to kick them cleanly.

Theory: Love good technically proficient theory debates. Sentences
like "Dispo solves the Neg's offense" are good but warranting them is
even better. When I am judging a debate I always feel like it is more
important to evaluate the arguments made as opposed to inserting my
own personal opinion in the mix. However, when I say that to debaters
they still seem to what to know what my general feeling is regarding
things like Dispo and Agent CP's... So here you all go. I tend to
think that Dispo is OK, Conditionality is rather shady and PICS can go
either way depending on the nature of CP. Just to let you know... not
a huge fan of the "Our K is a gateway arg" cause actually it's not a
gateway arg.... it's just conditional. I think that it is often
advantageous to have the groundwork for weighing the impacts to CP
theory, perm theory, and alternative theory debates explicated and
framed by the 1AR. This means reasons why this comes before T and
warrants as to why it is a reason the reject the team and not just the
arg should probably be made by that point in the debate.

Framework- I really enjoy these debates. Framework debates necessitate
that both teams do extremely effective impact work. My biggest
suggestion when debating framework in front of me is to make sure to
keep the rest of the debate in mind. How can your Aff be offensive
even in a world that you are loosing a portion of the framework
debate? Competitiveness- Are portions of the Neg's framework not
competitive with Aff's? How does that circumvent the Neg's ability to
garner offense off of the impacts to the framework debate?

Performance- I see a lot of it. I really enjoy these debates when they
are done well and when, at the end of the round, there is an argument
that is being made. I am not the best judge for you if your strategy
is to say nothing in an effort to bait the other side into being the
only one who actually makes an argument. I feel as though this leads
to debate that are woefully underdeveloped, frustrating, and debate
only actually occurs when the final rebutalists decide to finally
illuminate why they think they should win. That being said if you are
a performance team with a coherent arg you are good to go.

Some topic specific stuff...

-I am enjoying the T debates on this topic. All things being equal
(which I understand in debate never are) I think its probably a good
idea for the Aff to speicify the grounds of the overrule. Ummm.... It
is a legal topic and most of the good ground from the resolution comes
from the legal question you choose to address. If you run Casey and
don't want to have to answer alternate ground counterplans or grounds
based solvency args then I assume the solvency for you case cannot be
that great.
-Test Case Spec... Ah, is there ever a round that goes by where I
don't hear the Test Case Spec? I cannot count the number of times I
have had to vote on this because of some pretty horrific 2AC blocks.
-There really has been an explosion of bad disads on this topic. I
appreciate Affs who choose to call bullshit on some of these internal
link stories.
- A highlight of some of the "stellar" args I have been forced to vote
for this year: The 9-0 CP. Enforcement Spec. The Clarify CP. Justice
SPEC. The "The" USSC PIC. Yeah, I feel dirty. Please allow me to vote
on some good args.

Run what you want and what you feel you are good at. Speed is fine.
Speed and clarity are even better :) Please remember to be polite and
considerate. I know many of us tend to turn into a cracked out version
of Perry Mason when the timer starts but please forgo this urge and
remain civil. Answer questions in CX. Being evasive/sketchy looks bad
and makes you seem unsure/insecure about your args. Make me laugh.
Don't steal prep. I hate it. No, I really hate it. I feel a certain
burden to protect the 2NR from new and unpredictable 2AR
extrapolations and cross applications. Finally, debate is for the
debaters. Take what I have said above as a guide and not the end all.
If you have any questions feel free to ask me! Good luck to all and
have fun!
  