
  Hi, I'm Ari. I debated LD for 2.5 years for Oxbridge Academy on the National Circuit as well as at local tournaments. I'm currently a freshman at Columbia University.
How I see debate:
Debating during high school, I found the National Circuit to be very exclusionary and inaccessible by nature, so I see it as every debater's obligation to make Debate more inclusive and accessible to all. This means I hate evaluating arguments that are intended to not be understood by debaters who never attended debate camp or by debaters who don't attend schools with coaching staff that can teach them these arguments. I see arguments such as tricks and frivolous theory as definitely falling under this umbrella, and sometimes non-topical advocacies as well. If you do decide to read these arguments, I'm probably not gonna evaluate them and your speaks will suffer.

Spreading:
I haven't debated in over a year so my ear isn't as accustomed as it should be. Make sure to start off slow and then increase in speed as you go. I'll yell "clear" or "slow" to let you know if I can't understand what you're saying.
Specific Types of Arguments:
Ks:
I read these arguments a lot, so as long as they are adequately explained, they're fine. Please provide a clear ballot story with clear links and alternative. Make sure you make clear framing arguments at the Role of the Ballot level.
Theory:
As long as there's legitimate abuse, these arguments are fine, just slow down on the interpretation and violation. Defaults: competing interpretations, drop the argument, no RVIs (reverse voting issues).

Topicality:
Dope. Again please nothing frivolous, use this as a check against non-topical Affs.

Plans, DAs, CPs:
Dope.

Misc.:
I don't care if you sit or stand.Flex prep is fine.Have your timers ready, I will doc speaker points if it is obvious that you're trying to waste time or get more prep time etc.Pretty much just make arguments, and tell me why I should vote for them through some framing mechanism.If you say anything blatantly racist/sexist/homophobic/ableist/exclusionary/etc., I will drop you and tank your speaker points. Just ask before the round if you think any of your arguments could be offensive in this manner.If you have any questions about my paradigm, please ask me before the round, I definitely may have forgotten to include something here.
Have fun!
  