
  First and foremost, do what you do best. For me debates are more interesting this way. On default, excluding T and FW, I look towards impact calculus at the end of the round. Time, Probability, and Magnitude being explained well will get you far.

Topicality - Try not to just use T as a time-suck in front of me. While it may be strategic in terms of winning, I think it makes for bad debate. Running sketchy T shells with canned violations in front of me will probably lose you speaker points. Other than that, I'm open to debates about T's place in the debate and whether or not the aff even has to be topical.

The K - While I've hardly ever ran kritiques in debate, I'm certainly perceptive to them. Stories/Overviews can be very helpful in regards to me buying into the K. The more I understand it, the more likely I am to vote for it. Alternatives are very wise for the viability of the K in my impact calculus. The reject alternative is too often not explained, and left as "we should reject the aff because of x". That doesn't tell me what rejecting the aff does, nor does it tell me why x is so bad. In this same line, Linear Disads are for the most part strategically unsound in front of me. I'm very perceptive to magnitude mitigation claims by the affirmative on these. You might as well stick an alt on there and call it so that you have some significant amount of offense or put it on the case flow. Keep in mind though, that this all comes down to whats said in the debate, not my predisposition on the topic.

Critical Affs/Performance Affs - bring whatever you want to the debate as long as it's warranted.

CP/DA - Much like with K's, DA's are often well served to have a story/overview on top. Impact turn debates will catch my attention and catch speaker points. On issues of theory for CPs, I personally lean neg on most issues, but once again this is something to be debated in round and not for me to arbitrarily decide.

Making sure I'm enjoying the debate will make sure you enjoy your speaker points at the end of the day.
  