
  West, Megan (Formerly Loden)
Director of Forensics at Cypress Bay High School (Weston, FL) since 2010

Experience
I was an LD debater on the Texas circuit for four years in high school (2000-2004), and a parli debater for four years in college (2004-2008). While debating in college I attended the NPDA, earning a top speaker award in 2005. I previously coached the college parli team at Cal State Long Beach (2008-2010). This is my fifth year serving as the DOF at Cypress Bay High School in Weston, FL where I judge predominantly public forum and individual events, but coach (and sometimes judge) everything else (LD, Policy, Congress).

General Paradigm
My "old school" LD training combined with my parli success during my undergraduate career (and my now marriage to a policy debater) has left me eagerly learning all of the intricacies of technical debate (emphasis on the word "learning"). I am of the "it's your round, not mine" philosophy, but I really don't like theory. Clarity and weighing are essential in flushing-out arguments and my decision-making process. YOU MUST EXPLAIN COMPLEX ARGUMENTS. I am intelligent, but I can't read your mind. As a communication scholar with a M.A. in Rhetoric, I also love K debate, but I won't vote on a K without an alt, and still appreciate additional explanations and clarity. Tell me WHY YOU WIN THE ROUND.

Speed/Delivery
I think speed has a place in debate, and I can follow/flow teams at almost any delivery rate they choose (I'm good with up to about a 7 on a 1-10 scale). That being said, I am much happier with a mid-speed round than a super fast round where I miss a few things. Please SLOW DOWN ON TAGS. I also think persuasiveness, narratives, and vocal emphasis are always welcome elements. Oh, and you obviously don't need to stand-up (or sit-down/handstand) and look a certain way; I love comfort about as much as I love debate.

Speaker Points
I think that speaker points are unnecessarily arbitrary; I also know that giving every debater in a round 30s skews results. As such, I use speaker points as a rank. If you are the best debater in the round, you will get 30 points, second best, 29 points, third, 28, and worst, 27. I will only give you below a 27 in a round if I am offended about an argument or action during the round. I will also deduct an entire point if you are not flowing the majority of the time that you should be OR if you pack-up your belongings and don't take notes/look at your flow during my RFD. The trend to stop flowing because you are looking at a document (that, mind you, the judge can't see) is gradually excluding us from the rounds, and not taking notes/looking at your flow during an RFD is just dumb and counter-educational.

Technology
The transition to paperless debate has been a stressful one for me to watch. That being said, I do understand the cost, convenience, and even educational benefits of technology in a debate round. My preference is just that (a) flashing, etc. happens as quickly as possible, and most importantly, (b) you remember that I am not looking at the same materials (see "Speaker Points" note above). I will start running prep time if I think that you are taking too long to transfer something. You are responsible for your technology's performance.

Oh, and have fun. Isn't that why we all do this?
  