
  Katie Whillock

Experience- I debated for 4 years in high school. I coached for 4 years in Minnesota. I'm not currently coaching, but do judge on a fairly regular basis.

Framework- Make the standard for the round clear and tell me why and how to use it. Try to agree on a standard, but if that isn’t possible make it clear why your standard is better. I don’t care what the standard is as long as it is warranted. You don't have to have a V/C structure, just tell me what I'm supposed to use to figure out the important issues. Weighing is really important to me, and it generally works better if you have some framework for that weighing.

Theory- If there is actual abuse I’ll listen to theory, otherwise don't waste your time.

Impacts- Impact all of your arguments. If you don’t impact, I don’t care about your argument and I won’t vote on it. Please weigh any arguments you want me to vote on.

General Comments- At the end of the round, I would like a clear picture of what it means to vote for you. That doesn’t mean you need to spend the end of your rebuttal going over voting issues, but I should have a clear sense of your position. I love it if you can write the ballot for me. Make it clear which arguments I should look to first and why. Please weigh the major issues in the round.

Speaker Points/ Delivery- I've been told what I thought were decent speaker points aren't. For the most part I give 27s, if you want higher you need to be clear and make sure I can tell you understand what is going on in the round. I want to be able to tell you know what the important issues are and not that you are just throwing a bunch of arguments out there in hopes one will stick. Showing that understanding will get you at least a 29 even if you don't win the important issues. If I can’t understand you I will say “clear” if I have to say it again, it will hurt your points. If you can’t go quickly and be clear, figure out a way to debate without going quickly. I can generally handle speed although I'm not great at flowing and don't particularly enjoy really fast rounds. I'll let you know if you need to slow down.

If you have any questions please ask me before the round. If you're unsure on whether I will buy a position or not, just ask.
  