
  Alexa White
Affiliation: Newark Science (Science Park High) of New Jersey
Experience: I was a policy debater for my first two years of high school, then did Lincoln Douglas for my last two years of high school.

MY BACKGROUND INFORMATION: I go to Howard University in Washington D.C., therefore I do not debate anymore. So, with that said I am not as quick as I used to be at flowing, I'm not as efficient at understanding the spread, lost touch with the debate lingo/jargon and I most definitely am not up-to-date with the literature and topics you guys are running. I would prefer you treat me as you would a lay judge in terms of delivery. I do however understand the modern debate space and where I left it in 2012. I'm not far off, but just keep those things in mind. As a high school debater I loved to debate about racial oppression in the debate community and what to do about them most often times concerning the black community. I loved performances and K's and anything that I had a true connection to as an African-American woman understanding the invisible structures crushing my autonomous abilities. With that said, run whatever you want to, but most likely if you're talking about oppression I'm gonna vote for you. With THAT being said, do not fumble around now that you've found that bit of information out and try to contour your cases to my liking. If you aren't obviously passionate about crucial topics such as those, don't bs me. It's pretty easy to tell who pulled it up last minute and who has be working tirelessly to perfect the delivery of their revolutionary messages to this community.

IF YOU SAY ANYTHING THAT I DEEM RACIST, SEXIST, VULGAR, DOWNING A RELIGION, OR HOMOPHOBIC, I WILL BE VERY QUICK TO GIVE YOU ZERO SPEAKS. Do not try to justify any of those things because I'm going to interfere if you do and the odds will not be in your favor. 

I DO NOT LIKE MORAL SKEP. DO NOT RUN IT OR ELSE IT WILL PROVOKE BAD THOUGHTS TO RUN THROUGH MY MIND ABOUT YOUR ETHICAL STANDING AS A DEBATER AND AS A PERSON. I don't think slavery is/was okay. I don't think rape is okay. We have the moral language to prohibit rape and slavery from having happened and happening. You cannot have logic without context. 

I also don't like theory too much either. I don't like the blippy style in which debaters tend to present this argument to judges nowadays. If you aren't very clear and slow and giving blatant WARRANTS (that was plural) and giving a specific link, and you aren't being obviously abused, I suggest you don't run it. I used to run K of T/Theory all the time, so I tend to believe those kinds of arguments because I think they are true.

Be clear. I already warned you about going a million words a minute, so if you're unclear my ballot will be just as unclear and I'm probably going to go off from what ever you say in Cross-X, or whatever blips I caught during the round. If this is a forum for educating people, then we have to understand you first.

Cross-X is binding unless you can prove otherwise.

A dropped argument is a true argument.

For 1AR's - In terms of extending, give me a tag, an author, the warrant and what it takes out in your opponent's case. Then you're good. I suggest you say whatever you want me to pay attention to loudly, clearly and slowly so I know you want me to pay attention to it when the 2AR rolls around. (For LDer's I understand your growing struggle against those 7 minutes)

Holistically, I believe that any argument has some level of validity with a claim, warrant and impact. I believe that my ballot has an effect on the debate community. Debate is not a game, it is a forum for critical discussion and educating people about the problems of the world and more importantly, how to solve them :))))))))))
  