
  Background and Overview.
I competed in policy debate for 3 years of high school in the state of Arkansas. My experience includes numerous national tournaments. I will preface this philosophy page by saying that i am indeed not predisposed to vote on any certain arguments in a certain way. I am a tabs judge all the way. I did not read what most people would consider to be run-of-the-mill arguments in high school. So, if you have an off the wall counterplan or kritik, read it and if you can prove to me how it wins, it shall.

Kritiks.

The round is yours to run what you will, I will listen to your arguments and apply them how you tell me to. However, please do not try to out jargon the other team, this will not result in you losing the K but it may result in a slight dock of your speaker points. I am familiar with most common K's and can usually pick out what other ones are attempting to say. also I feel it is of note that your psycho analysis kritiks and other types of k's that may land in this catagory may not be my strongsuit but I will try my hardest to make sense of it and vote fairly.

Framework

Ill hear what you have to say when it comes to framework but Krit negs, please dont exclude the world of the aff from the round. let them have their advocacy and debate them on the issues in round, I am okay with kritikal mpx come first but dont tell me that policy advantages never happen because that isnt equitable. I will vote on it if you read it but know that it will annoy me.
Disads.

Please read specific links, ill flow and vote on your generic ocean policy link but i have a lower threshold for links that are aff specific. My decisions on disads generally come down to impact cal but if the direction of the debate moves elsewhere i can hang with that too.

Topicallity

I will vote on topicality if you legitimately win it, but please dont bore me with that on the most topical affs of the century. your time would more than likely be better placed elsewhere, minus the times that the aff is insanely untopical.

C/P

This was sort of my wheelhouse in my debate years. I love these debates and permutations and net benifits. feel free to read these in front of me all day if you feel the need. I do however have a rather high threshold for permutations on counterplans, so please aff do some legit work here or find another way to beat the c/p

Affirmatives

It is not my job in the back of the room to tell you what to read so please dont feel the need to ask it is your round to debate and mine to judge you should feel fine doing what you practiced doing and ill listen and please aff do impact calc for me and use your advantages wisely nothing is quite as beautiful as a strategic preemptive style affirmative. do your thing and know that i will be impartial and as objective as humanly posssible

Underview

it is your round to debate, do with it what you will. Have fun and debate with what you enjoy debating with and know that i will in every sense of the word be as impartial as possible. too many times in my career was i voted down because a judge didnt "want to vote" on an argument and i feel that that is not the heart of this activity so read whatever you got that you think will win. CHEERS! BACK TO YOU GEOFF!
  