
  My name is Khadijah Williams, and I'm a freshman at Harvard College. I am currently on the Harvard Speech and Parliamentary Debate Society (HSPDS). I have experience judging college level American Parliamentary debate style, and have judged for Harvard. I have a little bit of experience in Policy debate (but I hate that style...).


Short version:
Be nice
Point out bad and/or stupid arguments
Pretend I have no idea what you are talking about, and explain and DEFINE accordingly
EXPLAIN EXPLAIN DEFINE DEFINE
SPEAK SLOWLY, normal pace.



Long Version
Though I participate in a different form of debate from LD, I have been trained by HSPDS. My debating philosophy is pretty simple- I like pure debate. Though I participated in Policy Debate in High School, I highly prefer (and will judge accordingly) a slow, methodical, reasoned approach. In other words, I must be able to understand what you're saying! In terms of my judging paradigm, I will be more impressed with clear, reasoned arguments than with arguments that rely solely on technical jargon (cross apply my kritik from case construct, etc... no no no...). My philosophy is this- Only use those words when you need them. The less technical jargon you use, the better, because I can almost guarantee that I'll have no idea what you're talking about (a little secret- judges grade down when they are lost). So just keep that in mind, especially if I am your judge. I am a very communicative emotionally, so if I look lost, adjust your speech accordingly. If I look highly interested and impressed, stress whatever it seems like I'm focusing on.

Though I do have experience debating and judging, I do not have much experience with the LD style so I would greatly appreciate and grade accordingly on how well I am able to understand you.

In terms of what I prefer in style VERY IMPORTANT- nothing turns me off more than rudeness in any form or fashion. If you are rude to me or to the other debater, I guarantee it will be reflected in your score. Please PLEASE be courteous and kind. No bullying words, no mocking. Being critical of arguments is ok and even encouraged! If you think and argument is kinda dumb, SAY it! (but tell me why) But say it in a way you would want it to be said to you. You will get more points for- this argument is flawed and kinda dumb, then- HER ARGUMENT IS COMPLETE CRAP. I will mark you down for that. -

Make sure you tell me WHY your argument is better. Don't just tell me that saving the poor is a good thing. Tell me WHY. Explain your definitions as they relate to your argument; If Oxford's definition is sufficient, explain why. :D I am a bit familiar with Kritiks from Policy, but if you use them, PLEASE make sure to clearly explain why they are important. If the person isn't on topic, explain why, then continue to argue. I will make note if the person is not on topic and judge accordingly, because I believe the debate should be fair.. Broad philosophies are great (Neoliberalism, New Federalism, whatever you choose to use, I don't care- but EXPLAIN what that is. Assume I have no clue what you're talking about :) ) I strongly disapprove of super technical arguments. You can still use them, but you have to make sure they are relevant and not merely nitpicky and seeming like a cry for help. If you can teach me something new, that'd be awesome. Being overtly technical is not teaching me anything new, it will just annoy me if you don't explain to me WHY it's relevant. :D

I'm working on speaking myself, so don't worry so much on how eloquent you sound. :) I will grade more heavily on arguments than on eloquence. If you are confident in what you're saying, that's all that matters to me. Of course, eloquence will play a factor, but pay more attention to WHAT you say, focusing on helping me understand what you are trying to say, more than HOW you say it. (a lower ranked speaker can still win a round :D) No matter how beautifully you say a bad argument, it's still a bad argument. :)

Feedback- I can't promise it. Us judges have to judge 300 teams this weekend so we are very short on time, but I'm pretty nice so if you REALLY want it and I feel compelled, I'll talk to you. More so than not, however, I'll probably say no. Nothing personal, just short on time.

Overall, I'm a very nice and friendly person. Don't be scared of me :D. Just give me a good debate that is courteous, respectful, and engaging, and I will be a very happy judge and you will be very happy upon receiving your scores.


Cheers!
Khadijah
  