
  Affiliation: Asheville High School, NC LD and PFD coach 3rd year Judging Harvard LD
 The short version: 
 I am a traditional LD Judge. Keep Policy debating where it belongs....in Policy
The long version:
 General:
I have real problems with the way Lincoln Douglas is becoming Policy. Those of you who debate this way know what I’m talking about. Please stop or move to Policy. LD is about values and defending your particular value. For me it is so important that you continually build up your own case while at the same time tearing the other case. 

Cards: 
I do not respect an argument that becomes all about “cards.” Example: “Cross apply my Douglas Card across the flow and pick up my Myers Card to eliminate his Smith Card.” That is not debate. If you have an argument then use it, don’t let the ‘card’ speak for you. This doesn’t mean don’t use evidence, it means SAY your argument and keep RESTATING it as needed rather than saying your argument once and then dropping it down to a meaningless card statement. Think of it this way: if you are in school and a teacher tells you something ONCE and then after that continues to refer to it only as “problem A” you’ll never remember it. I’m not going to do your debating for you; if you tell me to apply a card I’m not going to go looking through my flow to figure out which one you wanted.

Impact:
Impact, Impact, Impact! I love debates with unique ideas and statements, but any statement without impact is an opinion. Evidence is a good thing (see card statement above) and must be used. I’ll vote on pretty much anything that is impacted clearly and correctly. With this in mind I won’t drop an argument for you….if you let an argument stand then so will I; even if I know it is wrong.

Speed:
I have yet to encounter a speed I can’t flow BUT I also have yet to encounter an argument that was enhanced by speed. For the speed talkers there are few things more distracting than huge gasping breaths in the middle of your argument. On the whole, I have found that speed is used only to distract and spread on an opponent and does nothing to help the case. In addition, if you have no diction, no enunciation, I won’t be able to understand you. Speed without diction just becomes mush-mouth

Spreading:
Don’t do it. It may be legal but it is poor sportsmanship and sloppy debating. You will not get picked up based on the argument “my opponent dropped my Contention 5 sub point G.” If you have a strong core case you don’t need to fluff it up with lots of sub points. 

Jargon: 
Don’t like it, please don’t use it. With that in mind I find that Kritiks are rarely well constructed or well argued. Unless you are REALLY good at running Kritiks, don’t use them 

Sportsmanship:
Eye rolling, teeth smacking, heavy sighs, the jerky “What!?!” face with flailing arms…. 
Keep control of your reactions. Don’t yell, swear, or demean your opponents

Cross X: 
DO NOT YELL AT EACH OTHER DURING CROSS! Cross X should be used to clarify a point or further an argument.
  