
  CX 
I am more versed in CX than any other debate. CX was and is my baby. I competed 4 years in highschool, went to state twice, nationals once, and currently am trying to get a policy program up and running at UTAParadigms: I am very flexible with CX. While I looove the structure and stock issues that comes with debate, I have no problem keeping up with K's, K affs, and speed. I will say CPs are not my favorite and I definitely do not like Topicality, but I will NOT vote you down if you use them. Just try to explain the importance of the argument in the round. Don't assume I know what you are talking about, you have had days, weeks, or months with your aff and arguments, I get an hour and a half.LD 
While LD is not my forte, I completely understand it and love the structure. I competed in LD a few times in highschool and enjoyed it.Paradigms: I am traditional when it comes to LD. I do not like the CX structured arguments in LD because I want to hear about the values and morality of the issue not whether its going to start some hypothetical nuclear war. I want to see the links between value, criterion and each of the points made in the case and how you Outweigh on a moral grounds and impact calculus. This is not the time to speak fast and forget the structure. Get me to understand each piece of your case, THATS YOUR BABY!PF 
I just started judging this debate in the past year and fell in love with it! I'm sad it wasn't an option in highschool. While I haven't had direct experience with this debate, I know the structure and can follow pretty well.Paradigms: This is NOT the time to spread. This is for the general public to understand and the general public cannot understand gebberish (what my parents called spreading). Take your time, I want to see the passion for the side you are on and want to be convinced that you are right. Talk to me not at me. I don't have anything to specific as of structure, but do not be rude or snappy during crossfire. I will dock points.BE FRIENDLY. Debaters are friends not food :)
  