
  Hello! I am Michael and I debated 4 years in high school for San Dieguito Academy and am a freshman debater at Berkeley.

Tech>Truth

Smart/logical analytics beat stupid arguments

Flashing=/=Prep but don’t abuse it. Stealing prep=lower speaks. You think you’re sneaky…….but you’re really not.

Nontraditional: I strongly believe that the affirmative must defend they hypothetical implementation of a topical plan by the United States federal government. It will be excruciatingly difficult to convince me otherwise and a mildly competent extension of framework will be sufficient for me to vote against a non-traditional affirmative. 
Translation: Strike me

Topicality: I don’t have any strong feelings here. Specificity of a case-list and exactly what their interpretation allows are appreciated.

Theory is a reason to reject the argument not the team except in the case of condo, unless I am told otherwise. That’s just a default though and can be easily reversed. Drop initially impacted cheap shots and I’ll vote neg without remorse.

Critiques are either really good or really bad. The more specific they are, the better and the higher your odds of success. If this becomes a Floating PIK please make me aware of that before the 2NR. I do not think “the alt solves the case” is code for “we do the aff” and if you make a floating PIK argument it needs to be very explicit. Affs really need to make the “this makes zero sense” argument against crazy postmodern stuff b/c that’s likely what I’m thinking already……negs would be well served to explain esoteric stuff.

Disadvantages are good. Disad/Case debates are my favorite types of debates to watch.

Counter plan debates are fun. Even though cheater counter plans (earmarks, recommendation, xo, etc.) were my bread and butter in high school I really do not enjoy these debates although I understand their strategic benefit. That said, if you find an aff-specific solvency advocate for any of these (i.e. an advocate for something like a reg neg about the given aff) I will be very impressed and think you’re pretty shielded from theory if you say it’s grounded in the literature base.

Case is essential. I do believe in zero risk even within an offense defense paradigm. If the 1ac bioterror impact card is Ochs and the neg reads 3 cards that there is no motive and the 2ac says “extend Ochs, bioterror causes extinction”, they do not have an advantage. If the 1nc reads some cards on misallocation/cronyism/etc dooming federal projects and the 2ac extends that their tech is feasible there is zero risk of solvency when this is impacted properly. While impact defense is good, internal link/solvency presses are even better.

Cross-X is underrated. It is binding and it’s a speech. I like aggressive cross-xers and I doubt I’ll think you’re mean unless you cuss them out or something. The only caveat to this rule is if you are conclusively winning/debating novices who should not be in varsity you should be as nice as possible.

I don’t call for many cards so if their link ev is terrible you need to say that

I’ll yell clear three times, then I stop flowing you and do my own debate work.

Speaker Point Scale:
30 is my personal endorsement of you as top speaker
29.5 is a top competitor at the tournament, I think you should be in deep elim rounds
29 is very good, should make it very far at the tournament
28.5 is good, approaching 29s but missing some stylistic finess
28 is good but missing some strategic understanding of the game
27.5 is average but showing signs of improvement
27 is average
26.5 is for somebody a bit in over their heads but trying/showing signs of improvement
26 is for somebody clearly out of the right division and not trying
25.5 and below is for somebody being offensive
0 you should stop clipping

How to get better speaker points in front of me:
-I like to reward hard working debaters and case specific neg strats/hyper-specific link turns showcase this to me a lot more than XO/Ptx
-Be clear
-Be smart
-Compare evidence
-A little snarkiness never hurt (and is encouraged) but don’t be mean
-Exploit their contradictions! If they read neolib and a trade da concede the trade impact and you only need half as many neolib answers!

My pet peeves:
-Non-traditional debate
-Saying “K framework is key to small schools keeping up with research”……it’s really not, you just need to work harder
-Poor strategic decisions
-Not making logical arguments
-Conspiracy Theories/Wipeout……just no.
  