
  Affiliations: Greenhill School (c/o2005) Addison, Texas and the
University of Pennsylvania (c/o 2009)

Although everything below still holds true, my paradigm was written in
2006. I have judged sparsely since then, and I am not likely to be
familiar with the jargon of the resolution. I would recommend slowing
down some and making your points extremely clear. I tend to be
expressive during the round, so maintain eye contact and it should be
clear how receptive I am to your style and content of argumentation.
Good luck!

JARGON: I know all the technical jargon, so feel free to use it when
appropriate. However, I do not judge consistently on every resolution
so do not expect me to know topic-specific jargon.

STANDARDS: I will evaluate arguments which are explicitly linked to
the criterion/standard. Ideally, you would both agree to one, but I
realize this is often not the case. Make sure your criterion is
specific and well-warranted. I am pretty line-by-line when evaluating
arguments. If you tell me something is a priori JUSTIFY why this is
true. I will evaluate it above other arguments if I believe the
justification is well-articulated. However, an argument that links to
a typical criterion (e.g. protection of life) should not be called a
priori.

SPEED: Go as fast as you want as long as you aren’t sacrificing
clarity. Slow down on important or dense arguments. Speed/spreading
is appropriate when you are using it to give more substance to fewer
arguments as opposed to less substance for a vast majority of
arguments. If you choose the latter option, especially against a
novice, your speaker points will be significantly reduced.

PRESENTATION: Don’t be arrogant or annoying. I prefer if you stand for speeches.

WEIGHING: If you want to make me happy, weigh in the rebuttals and
even in the constructives if you are ambitious. I believe weighing is
a lost art and can win you a lot of close rounds.

EVIDENCE: I have very high standards for evidence. Use the following guidelines:
-Read the source AND qualification of the author when presenting the evidence
-Make sure the evidence has internal warrants
-If called into question, I expect the debater to have the full card
(read: no ellipses OR cutoff paragraphs) or the article/book
-If I read the evidence and you have bracketed in words to link it to
the topic or change the meaning of the evidence, I hold it in my
jurisdiction to drop you
-If I read the evidence and your interpretation is nowhere near what
the evidence is saying, it will be held against you.

QUESTIONS: I encourage you to ask questions after the decision.
Debaters put a lot of effort into preparing for tournaments, and I
will put effort into my decision and help you understand it. I will
generally disclose. If things didn’t go the way you wanted, keep calm
and ask questions politely.

Ask me prior to the round if you have additional questions. Good luck! 
  