
  General Judging Philosophy: I'll vote on the arguments you effectively tell me to. Lots of help right? Read on for specifics.

Speed: Might be a bit of an issue since this is my first tournament on this topic/on the season, but just slow down on tags and T/Theory blocks and I'll be fine. Also, actually explain some of the acronyms/topic specific knowledge since I won't have heard any of your business before.

Topicality: Again, I'm new to the topic, so all the T arguments you've heard all year will be new to me. Just keep that in mind when prepping and strategizing. As to the argument, I vote on T, I've gone for T, you should do the same. That said, I'm not super at flowing T, so slow down some on line by line for me and everyone will be happier. The 1NC can be fast if needed though, just need a break on extensive line by line.

Disads: Love 'em and you should run 'em. I love uncommon disads, but the standbys are good too, just run things you know how to use strategically

Counterplans: Huge fan of many counterplans, especially those that are creative, case or topic specific CPs. I'm not very sympathetic to negatives running consult counterplans, but I've voted for them, you just have to do a pretty good job on theory. I've voted for them before, so if they are your strength, run them.

Kritiks: I haven't gotten to hear a solid K round in years. I ran them throughout my career in high school, and I love a good K debate. I'm familiar with most mainstream stuff. I'm also up on hybrid Ks etc., so run what you like, and explain yourself (especially the alternative).

Framework: I'm not a huge fan of framework as a generic response to the K, but if the K team has bad responses, or you are real good at it, more power to you. I'm certainly not against putting it out there to set the frame of the debate for me.

K Affs: All fine. I ran policy Affs with K advantages a number of times. Just execute. Performance type stuff I haven't seen executed all that well in high school so far, but you could change all that. One thing, not a huge fan of teams either using both speakers to talk, or playing recordings with words. If you want a beat, or your partner is just moving around or whatever, little to no problem. Otherwise, you should have a good defense for it.

Cross-x: I don't officially flow CX, but I pay attention. I'm fine with tag team, just don't dominate. If the other team is asking everything about one argument, and one person has the specific answers you need, defer to them as much as needed, but I want to see both people participating as much as they can. It mostly only affects speakers, but it is still good for you to have an understanding of all of your arguments. That said, make sure you get the necessary explanation out there so that the debate can function as a whole. Don't worry about speaks if it comes to that, I'll notice when it comes to that and I promise to be forgiving.

Prep: I usually give either 6 or 8 minutes, depending on if the tournament specifies otherwise. Prep starts after CX/the last speech is done, and stops when you start giving me your roadmap, which I will want, nay, demand.
  