
  I debated 3 years at Baltimore City College High School. I was a captain of the team my senior year of 2014. K

I primarily debated the k and I love kritiks. I think kritikal debate is good for the sport and personally believe it to be good for the community. While debating I read arguments in the western philosophy catagory (mostly Deleuze and Foulcault). 

While I do admit to having a bias toward K debate, I will vote on almost anything if you win the debate. I whole heartedly believe that debate should be about even competition that is based on what is said in round and how it effects the outside world, not the other way around. And while I do have a fondness for the k, if you suck at the k or seem blatantly apathetic to the argument you are making do not run the k. At least make me feel as though this activity is important to you. 

Though I air on the side of k debate I respect and like policy debate too. I started out a policy debater and remember the days fondly. I will vote for almost  anything as long as it is argued well. With that being said, I may be rusty on the hardcore policy debate stuff. So please don't read an Aff with 2 plan texts, 18 contingencies and some thrown in "net bennys" bc t wont help you win the round with me in the back. I understand an respect my limits as a judge. 

If you are a policy team and you read my Judge philosophy,  DO NOT BREAK OUT YOUR K-ISH ADVANTAGES FOR YOU SUPER POLICY AFF. Its is insulting and I will have a hard time believing it. I enjoy policy affs that have a k twist but I REFUSE TO BELIEVE THAT REDUCING GW HELPS SOLVE RACISM. Also, if your an all white team that reads a race k against poc I will likely not vote on it unless it has a legit (and I mean hardcore legit) link.  That being said in any situation,  I will try my best to be open minded. 

Now, speaking of things that I hate, DO NOT RUN T. I do not believe that you were forced to run t, nof do I give a damn. T makes for shallow debates and I hate it. If T is answered at least relatively ok its a no go for me. But dont think that means you spend 30 seconds in the 2ac answering t, bc ill vote you down just as quickly for that.  I will vote on it if I have to. I am a fair judge. But IF YOU MAKE ME VOTE ON T BC U DIDNT ANSWER IT I WILL HATE YOU FOR ALL OF ETERNITY (and then some). My low threshold for t is only matched by the low speaker points I am likely to give you for running it and making the debate space a useless arena. (Yes, T and T fw are the same and no I don't want to hear you tell me otherwise)

The one argumentative style I know little about it theory. I know enough to vote on it but I am honestly not good at it. I have a very low threshold for it. You prob dont wanna go for theory around me just to be safe but if you do it well I'll vote on it and you'll prob get some love in the speaker points area. 

Conceded arguments for me mean that you agree with them and I should take it as true. Unless its an argument that is very obviously fictitious or a bold faced lie. Im unbiased,  not stupid. Telling me that tornados aren't weather (a real life example)  isn't going to be true no matter how many times its conceded .

I judge debate on multiple levels, as I believe some arguments naturally come first in importance. #ThereAreLevelsToThisShit   Fw/Rob naturally come first as it is meant to shape the way the debate is decided. You write the rules to the game, im just here to decide who won. 

If you do ANYTHING blatantly RACIST, SEXIST, PATRIARCHAL, HOMOPHOBIC, TRANSPHOBIC, HETERONORMATIVE OR SIMPLY DISRESPECTFUL IN ROUND I WILL GIVE YOU A 26 AND ILL TELL YOU ABOUT YOURSELF. It will also factor into how much I believe your argumentation. DONT BE A DICK TO OTHER PEOPLE. And respect the sanctity of the idealistically safe space that is a debate round.  

SPREADING
I am okay with spreading but I may be a bit rusty. Dont jump out of the gate blazing fast, give me time to adjust to your voice. Also, always be clear and slower on tags. I want to hear what you have to say and I cant vote for something I cant hear. Ill give you a heads up once every speech if needed. 

I love debate and wish you all good luck.
  