
  About Me
 I debated LD for one year on the MA state circuit for Concord-Carlisle High School and was co-novice state champion. I dropped competitive LD afterwards but continued to coach my team and judge at tournaments through my senior year. I’m used to debating for mainly lay judges, but I’m familiar with most circuit-style arguments and was trained in how to run/evaluate them appropriately. I currently attend Harvard College.

General
 I will vote for any type of argument as long as it is well warranted, I understand it, and it’s not excessively abusive. I will not vote on skep triggers and I think theory should be used in case of actual unfair conduct, not as a tactic to win rounds. I love a good plan/CP as well as heavy framework debate. I have less experience evaluating K’s so you will need to slow down/elaborate on some structural elements for these arguments, but I have no problem voting for them. Generally, as long as you clearly explain the function of each argument you’re making and provide me with a solid warrant, I will evaluate it without a problem. I try to intervene in judging rounds as little as possible; tell me exactly why I should be voting for you with clear explanation (i.e. just saying "my opponent dropped Contention 2 thus affirm" will not help your case much).

Don't Do This
If you are rude to me or your opponent or run arguments that could reasonably be viewed as sexist/racist/homophobic/etc. I will drop you and tank your speaks. If you are clearly better prepared than your opponent, don’t be a jerk about winning. I believe debate is most valuable when it’s an educational experience for all parties and I don’t like seeing seasoned competitors steamrolling over less well-trained students.

Speaks
I’m fairly typical with how I distribute speaks. I really enjoy a good CX and may bump up your speaks if I hear a particularly good one - I think CX has gotten pretty dull at a lot of tournaments and it’s a lost opportunity for exploring direct clashes of ideas. I’m fine with spreading but please signpost clearly and slow down on card names. If you’re going too fast I will give you a warning before I start docking any speaks.

Let me know if you have any questions before or after round. I want to make my decision as fair as possible <3
  