
  Debate at the University of Kansas. Assistant coach at Lansing High School (KS).

"I believe I have an obligation to work as hard at judging as the debaters do preparing for the debates." – Dr. Scott Harris

tl;dr: should not be high if your A-strat is a criticism

*China topic
I have done very little topic research, so make sure you are explaining trade laws, treaties, and other programs a bit more in depth, especially if you are going for a super specific cp.

T
I find procedural fairness arguments to be the most persuasive. If you plan on reading a non-topical aff, I should not be near the top. If I am adjudicating the debate, it is paramount that you explain why T-Version of the aff cannot solve or why the negative is insufficent to discuss your particular issue. 

K
This flavor of argumentation is definitely not something that I frequently run, and I am not the one you want in the back attempting to figure your arguement out or the one giving you feedback on how to deploy it effectively. That being said, I can probably figure out neolib and cap way easier than wilderson, moten, baudrillard, or batille. I am not saying these do not have value, but I don't think I am familiar enough to follow the argument as completely as you would like. 
If you plan on deploying this strategy, you must explain links to the aff and not the status quo and you should figure out how the alternative can resolve the impacts discussed (or at very least provide an alternative way to frame the debate).

CP, DA, T, Case
I love them. Read these arguments and have fun reading these arguments.
Evidence
Spin is often more important than quality. That's not to say evidence quality is irrelavent (in fact it's crucial in closer debates). If you have the greatest card ever, but are unable to articulate its warrants within a complete argument set, I do not think you should be rewarded. (Let's be honest, you probably didn't even cut the card) Read the evidence, frame it within the broader context of the debate, and tell me why I should prefer it. 

Irrelavent musings
I am here to teach about argumentation and learn a bit from you all. I hope you treat each other with respect and have a bit of levity. Each of us are in this activity for a reason, and most of us found a home here. Getting the w is important, but it's not the end all. Making the room hostile for any external reason is wrong. Losen up and have fun.
  