
  Kyrsten Woolstenhulme – Assistant Coach Rowland Hall St. Mark’s, Debated at Lone Peak High School

Debate should be characterized by extensive clash and rigorous analysis of quality evidence. In the best debates both sides make comparisons between evidence and arguments (i.e. discussing qualifications, impacts, evidence quality, etc of BOTH sides). Offense wins debates; however, good defense can make the risk of something effectively zero. I tend to prefer policy arguments but that doesn’t mean I won’t vote for the Kritik as long as you explain it well. Speed is fine as long as you are clear: I will warn you once and then stop flowing. BE NICE – Speaker points will be affected by unnecessarily rude actions or comments. It’s your debate round – do what you do best.

Topicality
I have a pretty high threshold on T. This means the negative must prove in-round strategy skew or serious potential for abuse after the debate is over and tell me why it matters for me to vote on T. 

﻿
Theory
Don’t just read a theory block if you want to win on theory. Voters need to have relevance to the round and this year’s topic. Most theory debates tend to be reasons to reject the argument not to vote against the team, if you want me to pull the trigger clearly explain why. 

﻿
Kritik
I probably don’t know all your Kritik literature just the basic ideas behind the argument so if you are going to go for the K make the arguments clear. Tell me how you want me to evaluate the round or I’ll revert to a policy-maker/consequentialist mindset. (Note: If you are a K debater don’t read this and decide not to read a K, I would rather watch a good debate on a topic that’s not my favorite than a bad debate because someone tried to adapt too much)

﻿
DA/Counterplan 
I love DA/CP debates. A good negative strategy will almost always include it. I will vote on theory so be prepared to defend your counterplan. Make sure you do lots of impact calc.

﻿
Case
Do lots of evidence comparison on case. 
Aff – Utlilize your 1AC. You read it for a reason and it can save a lot of time on other arguments when used correctly. Make sure you extend case it can’t just reappear in the 2AR. 
Neg – At least play defense against the case from the beginning. I will vote for the status quo if you prove that’s the best option so don’t be afraid to go for case if that’s where you are winning the debate. 
  