
  Debated 4 years of policy debate at Iowa City High school
Now I’m debating at the University of Iowa
My major is Economics with a business focuses

I don’t mean to make this short because I don’t care. Debate for me was a place where I could talk freely. So I find debates more interesting when debaters bring new things to the table or really know what they are talking about. I think that me telling you really specific about what I did or like to do dissuades people from doing what they like to do. That said I think the formula that you should have in mind so that I can understand is to make a claim, warrant why that is true and explain what that means in context of your global argument.

Example: Global warming’s probability of extinction is 100% because of IPCC trends and scientific consensus. This means probability is an impact filter in this debate because extinction is inevitable without the plan.

Also while I was at the Michigan debate camp Tim Alderete told me something that change my perspective on reading judge philosophies. He said something to the effect of “Judges ALLWAYS lie. No one ever wants to say they are a bad judge or predisposed to certain arguments. It is your job as debaters to sift through that.” That said I think it is important that you know these few things:

1) I find that debate is a game and whoever plays it better wins. So line by line is probably more important for me than maybe some other judges because a dropped argument is a true argument (within reason).

2) Speed=amount of arguments clearly articulated per second. So make sure you articulate the argument and not just a claim.

3) You should talk about the resolution. That can be reading a plan, advocacy statement, just a topical discussion. You can win that the aff needs a plan but for me that is not assumed to be true.

4) Prep ends when the flash leaves the computer or if it is an email chain then when the document is saved as an attachment.

If there are questions you have for me before or after the round please do I won’t get mad at you even if you think I am.
  