
  School: University of Pittsburgh
Previous Schools: Chamblee High School (GA)
of rounds of this year's topic: 0Number of years judging: 3

I'm a pretty flexible judge. There are a few ground rules. In the final speeches, I expect you to tell me how to vote, and why you're winning so I don't have to call for evidence, which I don't like to do (unless it becomes neccessary). Analyze your cards, and really use your evidence to its fullest potential

For background stuff, I still have a heavy preference for Kritiks, and theory because that was what I ran throughout high school and part of college. But, I'm a flexible person, I have run my fair shair of policy strategies and impact turns. I'm really open to any argument as long as it is well presented and argued. Just know, I'm not a huge Politics fan, but that does not mean I won't vote on it.

I try to be as unbiased as possible when evaluating arguments. Also, please be polite, debate is supposed to be fun- so keep Cross-x a friendly place.

Theory: Request, slow down on theory please, so I can get your arguments. If you want me to vote on theory at the end of the round, you will need to have warrants somewhere in earlier speeches-no cheap shots. For CP theory, I used to be a big conditionality debater myself so I am open to a good discussion on the issue. Offense/impacts on the theory flow is the way to convince me you're right.

Topicality: I don't know much about this year's topic (Poverty) so you will probably have to do a bit of extra work on T. I haven't seen rounds on this debate to know what a "reasonable case" looks like so spend some time here so I can evaluate your arguments well.

Ks/Performance: As I mentioned before, I'm fine with anything. If your arguments are better than the other teams, you are going to win. It's pretty simple.

This is pretty short, but I'm serious when I say the most important thing is that your arguments are well articulated and outweigh the other teams. If so, you'll get my ballot. If you have questions, I'll answer them. : )
  