
  Dillon Wright
Nashua High School '11
Georgia Tech '16


Transportation:

I have judged ~15 rounds on the topic, so I have some familiarity with the topic.

Stylistic Biases:

Flashing doesn't count as prep. Start out going 80% speed and build up. Let me get used to your voice

Emphasize important arguments. Be clear regardless of how fast you are. Cross-x is for clarifying points and getting concessions, not for making arguments. If your evidence is bad, and the other team calls you out on it, I am likely to discard it. Flow. No really, flow. Uncontested arguments are true arguments in the debate round. I will not do any work for you. Always go for your strongest arguments instead of all of your arguments. Make overviews not underviews. At the end of the day, debate is an educational activity, so the goal is a debate with lots of clash. 

I award speaks based on the following guide:

26 - You lost your team the round.
27 - Average
28 - Good
29 - Great
30 - Your two speeches made me want to become a better person

Don't ask me how speaks are after the round, I won't tell you.

Argument Biases:

Topicality
Do not extend T in the block if you are not going to go for it. I generally believe that competing interpretations is the best framework to evaluate topicality. T should be argued like any other argument in debate. If you are going to go for T, your 2NR should be 5 minutes on T, and it should take up a significant portion of your block. You need to prove in round abuse to win.. I have gone for and won on T in several of my rounds, so I have a higher threshold for the argument. You can kritik T if you like, but know I will be annoyed

Theory
I actually enjoy a good theory debate. You will not win if you are clearly just speeding through your theory blocks. Make sure your violations are specific. You need to prove in round abuse to win. I tend to err neg on conditionality and counterplan theory most of the time.

CP/DA/Case
The more specific impact calculus the better. Tag line extensions are bad. Just saying phrases like "they don't have warrants" and "our evidence is newer" is bad. You need to explain what your evidence says and why your evidence should be preferred. I evaluate the round based on whether the counterplan can solve for the advantages of the plan or the net benefit outweighs the advantages of the plan. I have debated these kind of strategies a lot and judged them a lot in both high school and college.

K
If there is no way you are going to go for the K, don't read it in the 1NC. Pretend like I know nothing about the kritik and explain the premise and how it functions in the round. Run it in front of me if you know it, I don't care if it is Cap Bad or Baudrillard, I probably have heard of it and can follow you.

Performance/Kritikal Debate
If you can clearly articulate the thesis of your argument (not just use buzzwords) and explain why your framework should be preferred, I have no reason why I should not vote for you. I feel that debate can be used to bring other issues to light that might not be included in the realm of the topic, just make sure you frame the debate that way. However, don't take advantage of this to run arguments you would not normally run; the best debate is a well thought out and researched one.

Normativity and Other Critiques of Debate
I like debate. If you annihilate the other team/they don't answer it, I will vote for you. If it is close, I will vote against you.
  