
  2016-2017 - Coach - Success Academy HS

If you don't have dates, you don't have evidence

I have evolved a lot when it comes to progressive debate. While I enjoy a traditional and substantive debate, I also recognize the need for and power of critical debates. I believe there is a place for theory and that place is in response to positions that have some violation. I do not reward or appreciate theory that is whiny and non-specific to the opponent or round in progress.

When a critical case is presented, however, I do expect it to be warranted and unique to your position. If the opposing debater can claim the same position as you without switching sides of the resolution (and they tell me so...) then I will not vote for the argument. I do not believe any debate should come down to "who said it first", but should be about arguments that are specific to one side of the resolution or the other. The negative's role is not to disagree with the affirmative, but the premises of the resolution. If the critical position is unique (and many are), then debater's must substantively engage the position.

As for style...I do not like full speed debate, but I don't mind a 7/10 on speed. I am not as familiar with your case, philosophers, and examples. If you have to hand your case (or flash) to the opponent to allow them to know what you are saying, then why should you expect me to know it? If you run something super complex, be prepared to explain it clearly in round. This is just the foundation of good debate. If you do not explain what you are running, then you are not running anything but a word (not an idea). I do not believe in unlimited flex prep (so sue me, but that is what the 3 minutes of CX are for). GOOD debate involves triage and prioritization and I think thats the point of the limited CX time. I am ok with clarification questions during prep time, but not questions of strategy or substance.

I really appreciate a good crystallization. If you end the debate with 3 minutes of line by line, you probably lost. Give me some big picture (and IMPACTS) that I can hang my hat on. Weigh, weigh, weigh. Often, debates end with multiple arguments on the flow. Don't ignore or dismiss your opponent's arguments if there is a chance they are still valid. Tell me how you outweigh them.
  