
  Debate Coach: CE Byrd High School
Experience: Twelve years experience coaching CX and judging
Philosphy.
Overview: I try to be tab, sometimes you just do things that are so stupid, I have to intervene. I don’t like to intervene. If you make me do this, I’ll dock your speaks. I default policy maker, though I PREFER stock issues debate, and I prefer a well organized impact debate over a theory debate, not to say I won’t vote on it.
K-I’ll vote on these, but let me be honest, you will do better in front of me if you go the policy route over the K. I understand it better, and it just makes more sense being as we are in a policy round. That being said, I’ll evaluate your K exactly how you present it, and if you don’t do that well, you can guess how the round will go.
CP-I like a well made CP, but competition is everything; don’t expect to win the CP if you don’t do good work on your net benefits.
DA- Don’t waste my time with blippy throwaway DA’s. When you give me the story, be sure to explain all parts of the argument, and be sure to spend time impacting the argument. I’ll vote on a well made DA before 50 poorly constructed advantages.
T-A good T debate is always a plus, but unimpacted T arguments are so common, I tend to default affirmative on T. However, the affirmative had best do more than reasonability, because I prefer competing interpretations over it.
Theory/FW-Theory is like T, I need a reason to reject the team, or I’ll just reject the argument. That seems like a good way to solve the offense unless you explain to me why it isn’t. That being said, cheap shot theory is cheap. If you win it, you have my ballot, but your speaks will suffer.
Case-This is underutilized, and you will be in my graces if you use this well. Case debates are nice, and they will go in my calculus into making a decision if it comes down to impacts.
Speaking- Clarity and presence are important. Poor ethos drives down speaks and tips the scales against the speaker/team when an argument is extremely close. Make me want to vote for you.
CX- No preferences on open or closed but no domination by the partner not in line to speak. Speaks will be reduced.
  