
  Westminster '14.

To answer preliminary questions – flashing is not prep, tag-team cross-x is fine, speed is fine, and I’m really fine with listening to anything, although I do know less about critiques than I do other things in debate. 

I’m a 2n at heart.♥ That doesn’t implicate the round that much, but I’d say that means I will be protective of the 2nr and be pretty suspicious of new 2ar arguments.

I’d prefer not to sit after the round trying to pick up pieces of half-argued/half-resolved arguments and piecing them together. Lots of judge intervention makes me sad. It makes me sad and drains my energy. Tell me what to vote for and why I should care. 

Tech > truth, but that doesn’t mean truth doesn’t matter at all. Some things are just so bad/untrue that they can be beaten with by a couple of simple arguments. 

Flowing – Flowing is a wonderful skill, but it’s hard. I’m not a robot and I will miss stuff if you are not clear. That being said, emphasize analytics when made, sign post, and slow down on tags. *To encourage good flowing, if you give me your flow at the end of the round, and I think it’s good, you can get up to .5 additional speaker points (+ this means you read this philosophy, so yay). If this means a 28.5 becomes a 29 or a 29 becomes a 29.5, so be it.

Topicality – I like a good topicality debate. Arbitrary T violations make me lol. Key things to a successful T debate? A description of the world of your interpretation, impact comparison, evidence comparison, and lots of explanation + clash. I also think winning predictability is fairly important. I default to competing interpretations, but reasonability is a fair game. Why is it unacceptable for the neg to just win a marginally better counterinterp? One more thing – RVIs are a no-no, and I will not vote on them. 

Disads – Totally fine. Turns case args are key, but I strongly think that all parts of a DA are important. Neg teams should make sure to win all parts of a disad, and aff teams, vice versa, should make sure to point out the weak parts of a disad. 

Counterplans – Yay! I love aff-specific counterplans the most, including specific PICs. I think the aff should impact solvency deficits and the neg should set up solvency framing for the counterplan (sufficient vs necessary). *I won’t kick a CP unless explicitly told otherwise.

Theory – Make sure if it comes down to this, there is substance and explanation from the very beginning. 
Theory is usually a reason to reject the argument (except for conditionality), but there is leeway to convince me otherwise. Here are some of my personal biases –
Condo – 2 condo or less is fine. 3+ conditional options make me wince a little, even as a 2n. 
International fiat & 50 state fiat – I like them, and I’ve kind of bonded with 50 state fiat over this year. I think the least an aff can do is have a fed key warrant. 50 state counterplans that have a bunch of additional planks without solvency advocates are definitely questionable.
Delays CPs, word pics, normal means CPs, consult CPs are probably bad.
And counterplans should be both textually and functionally competitive. 

Critiques – I’m more versed in generic critiques like cap and security, and I might have read some literature from x author but that doesn’t mean I will know what you’re arguing in round. I expect explanation on every moving part from the neg. It’s really problematic if, by the end of the round, I still have no clue what you are going for. I think critiques are usually weakest in their alternatives, and the aff should attack them! Tricky things that the aff should answer/good for the neg: indicts of the aff’s epistemology, value to life arguments, reasons why the aff can’t weigh case, floating PICs, turns case args, and root cause args. Other things –
1) To be honest, I am more convinced by race critiques than all other “random-philosophical-babbling” critiques. 2) me if you read death good: -_- 3) one off K debates…sigh

Performance/non-traditional/k-affs – K affs that defend implementation of a plan (and only that) are totally fine. I like topical plans, but I don’t automatically dislike untopical affs, although I believe being germane to the topic is important. I’m flow oriented, so if you don’t go line by line or decide to read a poem why x is bad for 5 minutes, things could get messy…. Clean it up. Don’t just sway me with pathos – I want responsive arguments I can compare at the end of the round. Hip-hop, okcool, just make it interact the opposing side and tell me how it implicates the ballot. Same with any round, I don’t want to end up doing work for any side, so explainexplainexplain. Why is your nontraditional framework better? Kudos to performance teams that actually believe/think that their performance is key to debate. Performance teams that shift in round, answer all cross-x questions sketch-ily (please be upfront in cross-x), and run stuff just to trick their opponents make me value their performance less.If you’re neg, framework is a solid idea. 

Speaker points – How to get good speaker points (27.5 = average):
a) Avoid bad speaking habits (weird breathing, starting a speech unclear at max speed, screeching, etc.).

b) Have a good strategy and execution. I’m a sucker for specific strategies. 

c) This isn’t obvious to some people, but be nice – and this is super important to me. Debates can get aggressive but there’s a line that should not be crossed. Don’t be mean to your opponents, your partner, or me. Specifically, in the last case, if you decide to be rude, I will (un)happily do the same.

On cheating, I agree with this guy wholeheartedly, “Clipping is bad. Like, really bad. If I catch you I'll drop you a zero and tell your coach and make my Facebook status about it and roofie your dog and shun you forever. If there's anything else I could list here that might deter you from clipping imagine I said that too.” One additional thing – all types of cheating (lying about reading ev, stealing prep, etc.) are bad. So don’t do it.

MYBIGGESTPETPEEVEEVEROHEMGEE – Please don't ever make these argumentssweeping generalizations: “you go to [insert private school] so…. you’re racist, don’t understand struggle, conditionality can’t be bad vs you, have all the money ever, and can’t ever be skewed in a debate round cause you have all the damn cards in the world, etc.”
  