
  


    
         
 I used to do LD at state/nationals and on the circuit. I also have background in extemp and PF. I am currently a senior at Cal majoring in economics and political science.
  I can keep up with a good level of speed as long as it doesn't come at the cost of clarity (enunciation, more than speed, is usually my issue). I don't like the idea of calling clear so I will try to avoid it, but if I really can't understand you I will, at which point you can probably assume I've missed a good portion of what you've said. 
  I prefer V/VC debates, if only because I'm most familiar with them. That being said, I'll vote for nearly anything as long as the debater making the argument justifies the chain of logic every step of the way back to my ballot. However, though I have a prettyy good understanding of Ks, theory/topicality, plans/CPs etc and ran them several times myself in high school, you need to be very clear about the mechanisms in which your argument functions and more importantly how it interacts with your opponent's. I cannot make those jumps for you. (Also it's been a while.) But I will vote for things that make sense.
 Theory should only be used to check abuse. 
  Please impact your arguments. Tell me what they are as we go, and don't wait until the last speech to tell me why I need to care. Weigh, make links, etc.
  I average 27-28 for speaker points. For more points, I look for efficient time management and precision, responsiveness, and a clear ballot story. 
  Also, this might be the extemper in me but no shame: I do care about your presentation, as will the rest of the normal world when you graduate and need to know how to translate these skills you've learned in debate to the real world. An argument does not require you to be rude, and speaking at 300 words per minute does not justify filler words and unnecessary repeats. I won't pick up or drop you based on presentation alone but please do make a real effort to convince and persuade.
  

    


 

  