
  Background: Did LD in high school and now compete in NPDA with Cal. If its any indication of the sorts of arguments I read, I went most of last year reading only Buddhism and T. That being said I still enjoy good case debates more than mediocre critical rounds.
Important stuff:
I like speed. I'll clear/slow if there's an issue (if there's an email chain I'd still like to be on it)I think debate is a game and I'd prefer if you all just read whatever you're best at. I won't outright reject any arguments and my threshold for evaluating morally reprehensible stuff is probably lower than mostDon't have any preference on engaging the topic or reading generics. Do whatever you think will best increase your chances of winningMy default on theory is competing interpretations. If you go for reasonability I need a brightline or I won't know how to evaluate itWith respect to aff conditionality, AFC, FSPEC, and other sketch/abusive arguments, I think it's the burden of the debaters to win theoretical objections (I try to just evaluate the flow without considering personal preferences). I'm indifferent on most theoretical issues, including conditionality, PICs, questions theory, etc.(Parli specific) I try to protect, but you should still call points of order in case I'm missing somethingOther preferences:
If you run something I've never seen before and you're not awful to your opponents, you get a 30 no questions askedI'm a fairly kritikal debater, but I don't really know the literature super well. I'm pretty confident with most of the more stock Ks (cap, biopower, etc.) and am familiar with some others too including Nietzsche and Buddhism. I'm very down for weird/exotic Ks, but having slowed down overviews/theses will be super helpfulTurns out I might be a theory hack, that being said my threshold is probably a bit higher in front of newer teams and I'm more likely to err against theory if its close and I don't think either team is doing particularly well in a junior-level roundIf you have any questions, you can text 971-998-4166 or ask before round.
  