
  I debated policy with Hebron High School from 2014-16 and competed in local tournaments.

tl;dr - I'll evaluate pretty much every argument. Just go slow on your tags, warrants, and texts. Explain your arguments and the narrative within the round and you'll be set for a good debate.

General notes:
1. I'm a very laid back person, I honestly don't care if you sit or stand, which way you're facing, or if there is open/closed CX. 
2. I award speaker points based on three things: Sportsmanship (don't be mean to your opponents), quality of arguments (make sure you know what you're arguing), and clarity (make sure I know what you're arguing).
3. No offensive arguments (i.e. racism/sexism). I will give you bad speaks, and a scathing lecture at the end of the round.
4. Link/Internal link debate > impact calculus. Just because your impact is bigger than theirs, doesn't mean you win automatically. Prove that the impacts actually happen, and you'll have a much better chance at winning the round.
5. When extending arguments, you need to extend the claim, warrant, and impact for the argument to matter. Don't just extend the tag and cite.

Speed: You can go as fast as you can, however I am a little rusty, so if I'm unable to understand what you're saying, I'll say speed/clear. I'll start docking speaks if I keep having to tell you to slow down/be clear. Slow down on warrants, impacts, and tags. If you have good evidence then make sure I know why it's good. Also slow down on your tags/texts so I can flow them.

DA's & CP's: I'm fine with most things, just explain the narrative and go slow on tags.

T/Theory: I'm fine with this as well, as long as you can prove actual abuse in round.

K's: As long as you understand your argument and are able to explain it in a concise manner, We'll be fine.

If you have any questions or comments about a round, you can email me at: 
beckyanouri@gmail.com (use this one first)
bny160030@utdallas.edu (If i don't respond to you the first time, use this email and I'll definitely see it)
  