
  Framework
if all your cards are about debate/from debate authors I'm probably not going to be persuaded. real world impacts about why policy making is good/bad are always going to outweigh arguments specifically about policy debate as an activity. In essence, if you have real good real world examples of activists advancing specific policy to make change and can impact that out to why defending policy in round is good you will probably win my ballot more often than not. If you have impacts on the framework flow on both sides, please explain why you uniquely access or they uniquely cause the impact.

K
im cool with Ks. especially if you're conversant in the lit, can draw interpretations, analyze and explain your cards. I think the neg has a burden of link clarity. that means if the neg is vague and not case specific on the link in the 1NC and the 2AC makes arguments for why they don't link I'm probably going to be persuaded. Neg needs to explain the link and explain where it's at in the AC. If you point out specific points in the AC where they bite the link you'll be my hero.

it probably behooves both teams in K versus policy debates to read framework. please. it makes all our lives easier.

T
I think this year (China), topicality is super important at least in so far as policy affs are concerned. Reasonability is probably still a little in affs favor but on engagement in particular there have been persuasive arguments for competing interpS. ive also seen lots of rounds where neg while clearly winning competing interps/violation/reasons to prefer decides not to go for T in the 2nr. in rounds where we have conceded impacts on both sides please weigh if you go for it. 

policy affs/DAs/CPs
Wipeout, Death Good, DeDev are all fair game
i love really trixy policy affs. Hidden impacts tons of scenarios all of it is fair game. I do think policy debate creates tons of creativity and an excited to see what you come up with.

theory
There's no rules and I'm pretty agnostic on almost all theory issues. I can be swayed either way. that being said:
-Advocacy perks are probs illegit
-PICs are probably not bad.
-we should probably not have 50 states fiat.
-fiat should probably be reciprocal.
  