
  I debated in the northeast for Hunter College High School, graduating in 2010, and currently major in government at Dartmouth. I went to NDF after my sophomore year (summer 2008). Generally, I believe that debate should be a substantive intellectual activity, not a blood sport. If you are respectful and make clear, intelligent arguments that are not designed to confuse your opponent, I will be happy.

Specifically:
Speed – generally fine, but keep in mind I graduated in 2010 and didn’t travel outside the northeast. I haven’t judged in awhile, so start off slower and build up to it. If you are incomprehensible I will say “clear” once and if you don’t adjust I will stop flowing. Slow down at author names and taglines.

Arguments –
WEIGH and tell me how arguments/standards interact.In terms of critical arguments, I never ran these and am unfamiliar with the literature. You signed up for this tournament, presumably to debate the topic provided, so why not debate it? Run it if it's your raison d’être, but be slow and clear so I understand what you’re saying.
Theory – I’ve run it and hit it, and it’s certainly a good option when there is actually egregious abuse but too often people run it to confuse their opponent/waste time. I will be very impressed if you make an effective theory argument without a prewritten shell. I won’t vote on potential abuse. Don't bother arguing that fairness isn't a voter in front of me.

Flex prep – I don’t mind if you continue to ask questions after CX if you and your opponent agree on this at the start of the round, but a formal CX without prep must occur. It is just as important as a speech and sometimes more telling of your skill as a debater.

Other:
Please come to your rounds flowed and otherwise ready to go.If I don’t understand it I won’t vote for it – it is your job to make sure I understand.I won’t vote on arguments without warrants or impacts. I also won’t vote on one-sentence blips that later get exploded into a huge thing.Don’t be rude, inappropriately aggressive or offensive. I will tank your speaker points and if you go completely over the line I will drop you. If you two are friends/know each other from the circuit or something I have no problem with banter, but absolutely do not make fun of someone you don’t know or who you are clearly better than. Be a shark, not an asshole. That being said, if someone is being a jerk to you feel free to reciprocate.I will call evidence only if there is a dispute about its validity and respond based on how serious the violation is so make sure you have the full text and citation. If your opponent calls your evidence, hand it over.You can generally tell how I feel about an argument by looking at me, so do it! If I look confused or unhappy I probably am.Tournaments are long…humor and personality are appreciated!
Feel free to ask me any questions at the start of the round. Have fun and good luck!
  