
  Lavanya Yepuri
Judging Philosophy
West LA NFL District Tournament '13 (PV Peninsula HS) and other potential tournaments.

Affiliation:
Chaminade College Preparatory High School (2011-2015) - Parent of Competitor

LD Debate Paradigm:

I am a parent of a current LD debate competitor. As such, I have no prior familiarity or expertise in judging or watching high school debate. Please do not assume that I have knowledge of your arguments, strategies, or philosophies, because I may not have any experience with them. 

I will judge the debate as fairly as possible, listening to both sides of the argument without any possible bias or preconceived notions. 

The debater who better supports his/her value, and proves that their side achieves that value in the best way possible (through philosophy, logic, empirical studies etc.) will be the winner of the round. Being persuasive and an excellent speaker will also give you an advantage in winning the ballot. 

I prefer that you all stand when you speak, dress professionally, and act respectful toward each other and when at all times during the round. You may ask each other clarification questions during prep tine, but please use all 3 minutes of CX. Do not be rude during CX. I will take notes on important points made during CX, and they may factor into my decision. Please keep time during the speeches and prep time, I will hold you all to keep each other in check. 

I also prefer that you speak loudly, clearly, and most importantly, SLOWLY. I cannot follow spreading or speaking at a very rapid pace, and thus will not be able to understanding what you are saying; you will lose the round. A conversational style of speech is most appropriate. 

Your speaker points will be decided through your mastery of speaking ability, persuasiveness, and quality of argumentation. Points will be in a 27-30 range. I prefer to not disclose either speaker points nor the reason for decision. All explanation will be written clearly and extensively on the ballots. 

Good luck to you in today's round, and enjoy!

Policy/Public Forum/Parliamentary/Congressional/IEs Paradigms:

Same information as above. Good luck, I look forward to watching you!
  