
  UC Berkeley Comp Sci/Physics major. Cal’s my first and last time judging this year. Qualled to the TOC my junior year. Graduated from Scarsdale High School in New York in 2015.

I WILL EVALUATE ANY ARGUMENT but I’m definitely better at evaluating some over others (I also like those kinds of arguments better, but that doesn’t matter because my goal as a judge is to be as tab as possible). I was very much an east coast debater. Ran tons of tricks, theory, and skep. Like barely debated the topic at all. Truly love skep. I also loved running weird philosophical positions. So to make this brief, that’s the stuff I generally like to see and am better at evaluating. I would trullllly love to see a trick-off, or a theory debate over absurd issues.... I also like when you articulate why I should vote for you in a clear, holistic way, evaluating how everything in the round interacts.

And seriously, say whatever you want. Just keep in mind that k’s, policy type args, discourse, and honestly most util positions are just things I’m not really good at evaluating. I really do prefer the very theoretical stuff (things that are thought-provoking and don’t really have much to do with the real world), whether that’s some philosophy or some weird argument that affirms on face. Seriously, I’m open-minded to anything if you have a reason to justify it and that reason is articulated in a way that makes sense AND that I can flow. So if it’s a one-sentence blip, that’s fine, just make sure you pause after. And argument interaction is key, more important than anything else.

I am better at evaluating through a truth-testing paradigm but am open to whatever paradigm you want.

I’m TERRIBLE AT FLOWING. Pause and make taglines super clear. I’ll yell clear as many times as you need me to. If I don’t catch something the first time and I feel like a person who IS skilled at flowing would have flowed it (to compensate for the fact that I’m so bad at flowing), then I’ll call for it after the round. Otherwise I won’t evaluate it. I’ll also look at you and make it clear by throwing my hands up or something like that so you know that I didn’t catch it.

Flash each other your cases.

Speaks: I’ll give you speaks based on how well you debate. The clearer you make the round, the higher the speaks you will get. If you sit down early because you're slaughtering your opponent, you're bound to get close to a 30.

And most importantly, HAVVVVVE FUNNNNNNN!!!!!! :)
  