
  Background: Competitor since 8th grade in LD, Policy (longest at 3 years), PF, Congress, and Parli. Currently a student at Boston University semi-competitive in Parli, active in judging on both the local and national high school as well as college circuits. Judged final round at N.C.F.L Nationals this past year.

Now some specifics:

Style wise: I am fine with speed (will yell clear if you need to stop talking into your laptop/ anywhere not at me) though have been judging in slower leagues so let me get used to your voice before you barrel ahead. In CX be polite...you look bad if you start yelling at the opponent let your argument do the talking for you. A little sass etc is fine but being rude, nasty or ad hominem attacks will lose you speaker points right quick. I'm old enough to be from the 'tub' generation so this whole paperless thing and I don't agree...I get that everyone uses it so its fine but don't add 10 minutes to the round because you're jumping speeches to the other team so please I beg be organized about it. And if you make me call for cards have it on the screen already don't make me hunt for it esp on a Mac. I'm a PC.

Also if you haven't noticed humor and I are friends...feel free to use it all jokes are allowed.

Argument wise: I'll literally listen to anything just make it worth the paper I flow it on. I'll listen to racism good, Malthus, whatever terrible thing you want to advocate for because honestly if the other team can't win something like killing children is bad then they don't deserve to win the round. So run whatever you want just make sure to:
Impact calc - why should I care about this in relation to the other team's arguments
Extend - don't spend 16 min reading me evidence then forget about it...It makes me sad that my pretty flow goes underutalized. But don't just tell me an author or tag and expect me to extend everything...again what is the argument why should I care about it and what does it do for you
Your evidence has warrants...I actually listen to the entire card and flow the warrants so powertagging etc doesn't fly. If the 2 don't match I extend the warrants or ignore it all together.
Link debate - specific links please or at least be able to articulate exactly how they link, generic hedge etc links are iffy since everything basically links to it...I look here before anything else. You might have the best impacts but if you can't solidly get me there then it doesn't get extended.
K - I was a K debater so love it and understand it. You too please. Make sure you can explain the K without re-reading the cards just like you could a DA or CP. Be able to simplify any really existential philosophy so the opponents and I all get it or I'll be likely to go aff bc I can't vote for something I can't think through.
T - spend more time or it doesn't matter...time suck fine go for it but half way through the round I should know if it will be the 2NC or not by the time you devote
PICs/ CPs - NET BENEFIT no more need be said
Theory - prove abuse and we're cool
Performance - depends I've hated some if it wan't well thought out and I voted a team up last year...it's a crap shoot
Aff - critical was my thing but traditional is fine too...add on's are fine but I will listen to theory on them

anything I missed feel free to ask before round
  