
  Is a Panda.
Hello, my name is Joseph Yun. I was the 2A/1N debate for 4 years at Chandler High School. I am in college but do not debate. I do, however, keep up with yearly resolutions and am currently serving as an assistant debate coach in Arizona. As well as a life coach.

I am 100% okay with any speed and any argument that is warranted sufficiently. Please be clear on taglines and authors. Otherwise, do what you gotta.
In terms of debate-sense, I am basically tabula rasa. I interpret Policy Debate as a big game--with debaters strategically making arguments and utilizing them to the best of their ability. I personally don't care what argument you run as long as it is supported by objective impacts. Please be polite.

I'd also like to mention that while I identify as tab, I don't want to hear arguments that are really ludicrous or exploitative unless you have a very legitimate reason for running it. Arguments that are very personal and sensitive in nature should be handled as such. However, unless there is an egregious and proven offense of a personal matter, I don't think it's a reason to pull the trigger.

With that being said, I've also killed about three polar bears, eaten at least 17 banana pancakes in one sitting, and flown to the moon. Let's get to more substantive issues shall we?

Cross-X:
I believe that Cross-x is binding. If teams are being dishonest, I'll drop speaker points without hesitation. Please be polite, be pleasant, be funny (I'll laugh at anything, really) and avoid ad hominem attacks at all times. I don't care if you tag team.

Case Debates:
I'm a strong believer, intimate lover, and hearty advocate of a good case debate. For novices in particular, I think case debate is great (because let's be honest, novice rounds are 80% voted upon in presumption) For varsity and in general, case debate is good debate because we learn more in depth issues regarding aff cases. If the neg goes for six topicality violations and a kritik, by all means, do so, but an offensive case negative lets me see how well-prepared both debaters are and I think we all become a little more educated because of that. Feel free to read as much case as you need.

For performance debates, specifically, I'm a big hip-hop head. So if you play dope tracks and can characterize them to me in a way that makes sense/teaches me why debate is good/bad/causes global warming, do it with pride.

Topicality/Theory:
As the 2A/1N debater, I'll be honest. I'm a sucker for aff arguments on theory--but let me explain. I'm more willing to buy in to clever extrapolations and justifications from theory rather than flat "conditionality is bad boo hoo" or "omg they read two perms multiple perms abuses". I'll still vote if it's conceded. (Don't be afraid of -specs either...they're kinda cute.)

Topicality is topicality. I like the neg to be CLEAR on the impacts/harms of the topicality violation and I'd like the affirmative to be as concise yet persuasive as possible. The key here is to be educated. If the negative doesn't have a valid violation yet still goes for T and the aff does not catch onto this claim, I'll be disappointed.

Disad/CP:
If we aren't doing Disad/Case then the obvious pairing for a disad is with a counterplan. I personally love disad/cp debate. It's fun, it's dandy, includes all aspects of debate, etc. Feel free to have a lot of freedom with these. Assuming everyone knows what they're talking about, disad/cp's are a-okay.

In terms of PICs, feel free to run them. Make sure you distinguish how the PIC is competitive and distinct.

Kritik:
Short answer is yes. Long answer is "do you know what you're talking about?"

And I'm serious. If I give you that look--"Do you know what the hell you're talking about?"--You probably don't know what the hell you're talking about. If you're going to read a K, assume I don't know a single thing about your author or your argument. Sure, I know the fancy-shmancy-ivory tower terms like "Biopower", "Resentiment", "Astrofuturism", "Ashtar", blah blah but I'll pretend I don't know the substance at all. So if you don't feel comfortable being able to explain it to me, I'd recommend you not run it. Neg block should give me at the minimum a compelling link story and the 2NR should give me a grand story about the implications of the K and it's functionality. Also, explain the alternative explicitly. If I don't get why your K solves, that's probably not going to help you win.

Good luck and don't stress too much though. You are basically given all sorts of freedom.
  