
  I debate at West Georgia

General: The only way to win a round is to convince me to vote for you. Don’t cheat. Don’t be offensive. Don’t steal prep. Don’t argue or yell at me over my rfd. Go for args you are good at. Don’t try to run arguments just because of whatever my philosophy says. I’m pretty chill during round but focus thoroughly on my flow during speeches so it is normal for me to be face deep into my flow at that time. 

Impact Calc is a big must and not just about what you have to say but what that means in context to what the other side has to say.

Tech: I am understandable of computer issues but I also expect you to be responsible and swift with flashing. Prep ends when you ask me to stop but I will start it again if I feel you are prepping. Don’t put me in that position because it won’t end well for you.

Flowing: I’m pretty damn good at it. But that relies on the fact that you express CLEARLY when to switch flows and what to call the flow in the constructive. Few things annoy me more than “offcase 1” just call it the Cap K please.

Speed: I love it, but only when it is tagged along with clarity. If I don’t understand you I will let it be known. I greatly suggest you don’t start off at full speed, especially if you are starting on something like T, give me a minute to adjust to your voice, tone, speed etc. 

T: I have a pretty high threshold and usually get bored with it. If the aff is reasonable and answers the right args I'm willing to vote on it despite a long line of technical args.

K: I am fairly familiar with these kinds arguments but I still expect you to explain what the alt does, and why I should weigh your impacts Make your overviews specific to the round, one link of “state bad” isn’t gonna do it for me. I think that explaining why the framing of your impacts is important for both sides on a comparative level.

CP: I am down for all sorts of CPs and CP theory. Make them interesting and pair them with a good net benefit and a disad

Disad/Case: I am very willing to pull the trigger on presumption if you are doing a good job of it and it is very specific to the case. I like disads as well but I give aff a good bit of leeway on outweighing the risks so make the impact calc clear.

Performance: All speeches are performances; you can do whatever you want dance, sing, twerk just debate it out.

Misc: I love Supernatural, ID Politics debates. I have judged quite a few debates on this topic but most of them have been Cuba. I would love to see more Mexico border debates and critical affs are one of my favorite things in the world. Don’t be a jerk in cross-ex and especially not to your partner. Even if for some silly reason you think that you are better than your partner it does no good for you, your partner, or me. Unless they are really screwing up let them answer and ask questions.

Also, ableist and gendered language irks me so it’d be awesome if we stayed away from it!

Feel free to ask me any questions.
  