
  I graduated from Mountain View High School in Mesa, Arizona in 2013. I debated three years of LD, mostly in-state but I was exposed to a lot more progressive arguments through VBI and generally debated so. I did fairly well in state and if you think my record is really that important, look it up on NFL. 

I like to think of the role of debaters as to write the final story for the judge. I like weighing, I like metaweighing, I like explanations of how arguments interact. Don't make blanket statements, every argument needs a warrant! Remember, all your arguments/responses should be logical!

Don't forget extensions! To me, extensions make or break rounds! 

Policy Arguments:

I think DAs CPs Plans are interesting arguments. However, I still believe in the educational nature in debate so I get really annoyed when it's obvious that they are pulled from a policy backfile. Granted, I'll vote for you if you win the flow, but you'll get a speech from me afterwards. Also, your argument is less valid to me if it isn't structured. If you can't understand the structure of a DA/CP/Plan/Theory Shell/T/K/etc., you probably don't understand how it's supposed to work anyways. 

Theory: Don't use it as a time suck. I default reasonability unless told otherwise

Extinction Scenarios: I'll buy them but I have a low threshold for arguments against them, they just flat out aren't very logical and everyone in the round knows it. 

Kritiks:

I just don't like them. I think running Ks for strategy defeats the purpose of Ks. Prove to me there is actually something morally repugnant inround and I will buy your argument hands down. Otherwise, you can definitely still run Ks. I will still vote for them, but they better have really strong links and logically sound. I did not run Ks in high school so I am not familiar with a lot of K authors so definitely slow down for me if you want to run your K. 

Speed: 
As a generality, only speak as fast as you need. I can take speed, but I wouldn't say that I could sufficiently flow outrounds of the policy TOC. As long as your clear and slow down for authors, tags, other important things, I will likely be ok with your speed. I will yell clear if you're too fast/muddly. 


IF YOU DON"T HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO SAY IT'S BETTER TO SIT DOWN THAN TO KEEP TALKING ABOUT THE SAME THING
  