
  Hi! I go to Valley.

I will do my best not to intervene and remain tabula rasa, but I can't guarantee my prejudices or likes or dislikes won't affect my decision, nor am I as familiar with some arguments as I want to be you want me to be.

Arguments I'd be best at evaluating, in order from "This is what I'm most familiar with" to "What is even going on":
Framework. You have to explain what offense matters and how to weigh offense under your framework, though.T/Theory. Weighing on some level--between standards, between shells, between voters--is crucial. Also I'm probably one of the few who gets annoyed by theory run for strategic purposes, so the more frivolous the shell, the lower the quality of a response I'll need to answer it.Tricks. If you are primarily a tricks debater, please don't pref me because I will be annoyed and make faces at you through the entire round and hate judging you and tank your speaks. That being said, I'm more open to them now than I was when I was younger, and I will flow underviews and extend arguments from them with no complaint.K's. ROBs should be explicit in telling me what to do. Also weigh your ROB against their f/w.LARP debates. I still don't know the difference between intrinsic and severance perms, I can barely remember the structure of a DA, and I very rarely cut util prep.
Defaults:
T/Theory--no RVIs, drop the argument, meta-theory and theory are on the same level.Permissibility is neg ground.Theory vs K--I don't presume that one comes before the other, make those arguments in round. If you read theory against a K and neither you nor your opponent tell me which one comes first I'll probably just ignore both of them and go to case.
Please do these things or I will give you bad speaks:
WEIGH for the love of god. Especially if you're novice or JV.Signpost.Speak clearly. If you're not improving after I say "clear" for the 3rd time I'll stop flowing.Slow down on analytics, tag lines, and author names. You should really just pause after you read taglines and author names. I will ask you to repeat theory interps if need be, but I'd prefer not to.Make very clear by the end of the 2N or 2A why you're winning, whether that be through demolishing every aspect of the flow or giving an effective overview.
Likes:
Smart analytics, especially against really unlikely big impact scenarios like extinction. Or just point out logical fallacies.Argument comparison and weighing.Going for efficiency rather than speed. I struggle with efficiency and time allocation a lot, so I'm always impressed by people who are very efficient but not necessarily very fast.Confidence and speaking persuasively.Making the layers of the debate clear.Sarcasm and humor without being rude or going overboard.Debates over substance rather than theory.PUNS.
Dislikes:
SkepArrogance, condescension, elitism, or anything close to those. I will give you a 25 if you're arrogant.If your neg strat is "5 off ac" I will cry. If it's "2 off ac" though I would just be like "all right then, let me get some more flow paper." Basically, as long as you're leaving yourself sufficient time to address the case and you're not just reading the offs to avoid actively engaging with the AC I will not complain.Being offensive or making offensive arguments. If either of those things happen without either a) a genuine apology and never doing/saying it again for the duration of the round or b) striking it off the flow [I will literally stop the round and tell you to strike it off the flow] then I will drop you.
30 SPEAKS FOR PERFORMANCES BASED ON MULAN, SHANG, OR ONE OF HAYAO MIYAZAKI'S FILMS. I unfortunately can't guarantee a win :( but 30 speaks is still good too, right?

I also don't listen to CX so if something happens there that's important you should definitely be like "Hey Annie I want you to hear this."

Feel free to ask me q's after the round (I'll even send you my flows if you ask nicely), and if there isn't time...

My email is aczhang777@gmail.com. You can find me on FB under my name, too, though if we're not friends there I can't guarantee I'll respond (in which case I'll answer your q's when you see me in person). Good luck and have fun! :)
  