
  Scratch that below. I've been away from debate in a while - and will occasionally judge every now and then - but I'm not nearly as fast as flowing, understanding spreading, or have any knowledge of the new arg or strat everyone is running.


Hey,

I'm a Junior at UC Berkeley who debated for 4 years at Dougherty Valley High School in Policy and competed at a couple of LD tournaments my senior year. At Cal, I debate on the NPDA circuit where i've reached deep elimination rounds at the NPTE each year.

Coming from a policy background i always evaluate stuff on an offense defense paradigm which is why i dont understand the function of " AC's" and "NC's" on top of other offs. The best aff's to read in front of me are straight up aff's that defend a plan text with extinction impacts ( Heg, Econ, Etc.) or a K aff of any sort.
I am cool with anything and everything and will vote on whatever you tell me to vote on. Having said that i would much rather prefer a K Aff vs K debate, or a straight aff vs CP/DA strat than theory.

I dont like skep.

Speed is cool but you have to slow down on tags. Go as fast as you want on all the other stuff.

Theory- I hate theory. I mean its cool if you read Framework and T, but like " Aff must have a card in the 1AC that specifies exactly how they prioritize environmental protection over resource extraction" or " Aff can't have both post fiat and pre-fiat impacts" thats just kinda lame in my opinion. I only have experience with Policy theory and it wasn't as indepth as LD theory so be vary of that when going for it in the 2AR/2NR.

If you are a debater with 1 min of offense in the 1AC, and 5 min of theory, I will nuke your speaks. I dont understand why anyone would do that.

Speaks- i give fairly high speaks assuming you're not disrespectful to other individuals. There's a fine line between confidence in CX and being rude.

With K's- I love them. If you read a k aff in front of me thats well made and sounds cool you'll definitely get very high speaks. A good PIK, or counter K on the neg would get you even higher speaks. Literature that i read alot in HS include Nietzsche, Heidegger, Virillio, and Lacan. I'm also cool with all the other generic ones like Bataille, Baudrillard, and DnG. Read whatever but have a very clear Overview in the next speech.

If you have any other questions just ask me before the round.
  